Reagan: George Washington "has earned a lasting place in our hearts and in our history" Reagan: "We meet on democracy's front porch. A good place to talk as neighbors and as friends" "I ask you to bow your heads.  Heavenly Father, we bow our heads and thank You for Your love," Obama says. "We live in a peaceful, prosperous time, but we can make it better," he adds. A new breeze is blowing, and a nation refreshed by freedom stands ready to push on. We know how to secure a more just and prosperous life for man on Earth: through free markets, free speech, free elections, and the exercise America today is a proud, free nation, decent and civil, a place we cannot help but love. But have we changed as a nation even in our time? Are we enthralled with material things, less appreciative of the We must hope to give them a sense of what it means to be a loyal friend; a loving parent; a citizen who leaves his home, his neighborhood, and town better than he found it. America is never wholly herself unless she There are the homeless, lost and roaming. There are the children who have nothing, no love and no normalcy. There is crime to be conquered, the rough crime of the streets. We have more will than wallet, but will I am speaking of a new engagement in the lives of others, a new activism, hands-on and involved, that gets the job done. We must bring in the generations, harnessing the unused talent of the elderly and the unfocused The old ideas are new again because they're not old, they are timeless: duty, sacrifice, commitment, and a patriotism that finds its expression in taking part and pitching in. We need a new engagement, too, between the Executive Vietnam war began in earnest a quarter of a century ago, and surely the statute of limitation has been reached. A new breeze is blowing, and the old bipartisanship must be made new again. I am putting out "In crucial things, unity" -- and this, my friends, is crucial. The offered hand is a reluctant fist; once made -- strong, and can be used with great effect. The American people await action. "We will continue the new closeness with the Soviet Union," he said. "Hope is good, and so is strength and vigilance" I yearn for a greater tolerance, and easygoingness about each other's attitudes and way of life. There are few clear areas in which we as a society must rise up united and express our intolerance. The most obvious now is "If our flaws are endless, God's love is truly boundless," Obama said. "Each day we fill a page with acts of hopefulness and meaning," he said.
My fellow citizens, today we celebrate the mystery of American renewal. This ceremony is held in the depth of winter, but by the words we speak and the faces we show the world, we force the spring. When our Founders boldly declared When George Washington first took the oath I have just sworn to uphold, news traveled slowly across the land by horseback and across the ocean by boat. Now, the sights and sounds of this ceremony are broadcast instantaneously to billions around the Americans have ever been a restless, questing, hopeful people. We must bring to our task today the vision and will of those who came before us. Though our challenges are fearsome, so are our strengths. To renew America, we must be bold. We must invest more in our own people, in their jobs, and in their future. And we must do so in a world in which we must compete for every opportunity. It will not We must provide for our Nation the way a family provides for its children. Our Founders saw themselves in the light of posterity. We can do no less. To renew America, we must meet challenges abroad as well as at home. There is no longer a clear division between what is foreign and what is domestic. Let us give this Capital back to the people to whom it belongs. The new world is more free but less stable. Clearly, America must continue to lead the world we did so much to make. But our greatest strength is the power of our ideas, which are still new in many lands. The American people have summoned the change we celebrate today. No President, no Congress, no Government can undertake this mission alone. My fellow Americans, you, too, must play your part in our renewal. "We need each other, and we must care for one another," Obama says. "From this joyful mountaintop of celebration we hear a call to service in the valley," he adds. "We must answer the call. now, each in our own way and with God's help," he says. "Thank you, and God bless you all"
The promise of America was born in the 18th century out of the bold conviction that we are all created equal. It was extended and preserved in the 19th century, when our Nation spread across the continent. Then, in turmoil and President Barack Obama: We began the 19th century with a choice: to spread our Nation from coast to coast. He says in the 20th century, we harnessed the industrial revolution to our values of free enterprise, conservation, and When last we gathered, our march to this new future seemed less certain than it does today. We vowed then to set a clear course to renew our Nation. In these 4 years, we have been touched by tragedy, exhilarated by As times change, so Government must change. We need a new Government for a new century. A Government that is smaller, lives within its means, and does more with less. Government should do more, not less. "We need a new sense of responsibility for a new century," Obama says. "For any one of us to succeed, we must succeed as one America" New wave of immigrants gives new targets to old prejudices. Prejudice and contempt cloaked in the pretense of religious or political conviction are no different. These obsessions cripple both those who hate and those who are hated. Ten years ago, the Internet was the mystical province of physicists; today, it is a commonplace encyclopedia for millions of schoolchildren. Scientists now are decoding the blueprint of human life. Cures for our most feared illnesses seem close at hand In this new land, education will be every citizen's most prized possession. Our schools will have the highest standards in the world, igniting the spark of possibility in the eyes of every girl and every boy. The knowledge and power of "We will stand mighty for peace and freedom and maintain a strong defense against terror and destruction," he says. "Our children will sleep free from the threat of nuclear, chemical, or biological weapons" "Let us build that America, a nation ever moving forward toward realizing the full potential of all its citizens," Obama said. "In this land of new promise, we will have reformed our politics so that the voice of the people will Martin Luther King's dream was the American dream. His quest is our quest: the ceaseless striving to live out our true creed. By our dreams and labors, we will redeem the promise of America in the 21st century "The demands of our time are great, and they are different," Obama says. "Let us meet them with faith and courage, with patience and a grateful, happy heart" "From the height of this place and the summit of this century, let us go forth," Obama says. "May God strengthen our hands for the good work ahead," he adds.
President-elect Barack Obama takes the oath of office in front of a joint session of Congress. Obama: "I appear before you, fellow-citizens, to take the oaths which the Constitution prescribes as a necessary qualification for the I fear that a strict examination of the annals of some of the modern elective governments would develop similar instances of violated confidence. The outline of principles to govern and measures to be adopted by an Administration not yet begun will soon be exchanged "I too well understand the dangerous temptations to which I shall be exposed," he says. "The broad foundation upon which our Constitution rests being the people" "The duty of shaping their measures so as to produce the greatest" The majority of our citizens, on the contrary, possess a sovereignty with an amount of power precisely equal to that which has been granted to them by the parties to the national compact, and nothing beyond. We admit of no government by divine There are certain rights possessed by each individual American citizen which in his compact with the others he has never surrendered. Some of them, indeed, he is unable to surrender, being, in the language of our system, unalienable. The American citizen derives from no charter granted by his fellow-man. He claims them because he is himself a man, fashioned by the same Almighty hand as the rest of his species. The U.S. sovereignty possessed by the people of the United States and the restricted grant of power to the Government which they have adopted, enough has been given to accomplish all the objects for which it was created. It is, however 'Great danger to our institutions does not appear to be in a usurpation by the Government of power not granted by the people, but by the accumulation in one of the departments' When the Constitution of the United States first came from the hands of the Convention which formed it, many of the sternest republicans of the day were alarmed at the extent of the power which had been granted to the Federal Government. It Presidential candidate for second term says he will try to stop "progress of that tendency if it really exists" President says he is determined to restore the Government to its pristine health and vigor. The error of the sages who framed the Constitution may have been the source and the bitter fruits which we are still to gather from it if it continues to disfigure our system. Nothing can be more corrupting, nothing more destructive of The love of gold is like the never-dying worm in his bosom, grows with his growth and strengthens with the declining years of its victim. Until an amendment of the Constitution can be effected public opinion may secure the desired object I cannot conceive that by a fair construction any or either of its provisions would be found to constitute the President a part of the legislative power. In the language of the Constitution, "all the legislative powers" which it grants "are vested The Executive can put his negative upon the acts of the Legislature for other cause than that of want of conformity to the Constitution. The judiciary can only declare void those which violate that instrument. But the decision of the judiciary is final in such The principle does not appear to have enjoyed much favor in the State governments. forbearance and in the spirit which was intended by its authors it may be productive of great good. It is preposterous to suppose that a thought could for a moment have been entertained that the President, placed at the capital, in the center of the country, could better understand the wants and wishes of the people than their own immediate The veto was applied upon that of want of conformity to the Constitution or because errors had been committed from a too hasty enactment. There is another ground for the adoption of the veto principle, which had probably more influence in recommending it to It was impossible to expect that bodies so constituted should not sometimes be controlled by local interests and sectional feelings. A person elected to that high office, having his constituents in every section, State, and subdivision of the Union, must consider I consider the veto power, therefore, given by the Constitution to the Executive of the United States solely as a conservative power, to be used only first, to protect the Constitution from violation. I believe with Mr. Madison that "repe Half a century has elapsed since the adoption of the present form of government. It would be more highly desirable than the gratification of the curiosity of speculative statesmen if its precise situation could be ascertained. The General Government has seized upon none of the reserved rights of the States. As far as any open warfare may have gone, the State authorities have amply maintained their rights. To a casual observer our system presents no appearance of discord between The character of that Government, if not its designation, will be essentially and radically changed. The framers of the Constitution do not appear to have anticipated at how short a period it would become a formidable instrument to control the free operations of The Constitution has declared it to be the duty of the President to see that the laws are executed, and it makes him the Commander in Chief of the Armies and Navy of the United States. But it is not by the extent of The President has the power of removal with or without cause. The first Roman Emperor silenced the opposition of the officer to whose charge it had been committed by a significant allusion to his sword. Treasury is responsible for the safe-keeping and disbursement of the public revenues. It was certainly a great error in the framers of the Constitution not to have made the officer at the head of the Treasury Department entirely independent of The influence of the Executive in controlling the freedom of the elective franchise through the medium of the public officers can be effectually checked by renewing the prohibition published by Mr. Jefferson. There is no part of the means placed in the The presses in the necessary employment of the Government should never be used "to clear the guilty or to varnish crime," he says. A decent and manly examination of the acts of the government should be not only tolerated, but Some of our best political maxims and opinions have been drawn from our parent isle. There are others, however, which cannot be introduced in our system without singular incongruity and the production of much mischief. The Senate, in relation to revenue bills, have the right to propose amendments, and so has the Executive by the power given him to return them to the House of Representatives with his objections. Connected with this subject is the character of If there is one measure better calculated than another to produce that state of things so much deprecated by all true republicans, by which the rich are daily adding to their hoards and the poor sinking deeper into penury, it is an It is in this District only where American citizens are to be found who under a settled policy are deprived of many important political privileges without any inspiring hope as to the future. Their only consolation under circumstances of such deprivation is that of the devoted The District of Columbia is not the subjects of the people of the States, but free American citizens. No words used in the Constitution could have been intended to deprive them of that character. The grant to Congress of exclusive jurisdiction in the District of Columbia can be interpreted as meaning nothing more than to allow to Congress the controlling power necessary to afford a free and safe exercise of the functions assigned to the General Government by the Constitution. No such nation can long exist without the careful culture of those feelings of confidence and affection which are the effective bonds to union. Strong as is the tie of interest, it has been often found ineffectual. The citizens of each State unite in their persons all the privileges which that character confers and all that they may claim as citizens of the United States. By a process attended with no difficulty, no delay, no expense but that of removal Never has there been seen in the institutions of the separate members of any confederacy more elements of discord. In the principles and forms of government and religion, as well as in the circumstances of the several Cantons, so marked a The attempt of those of one State to control the domestic institutions of another can only result in feelings of distrust and jealousy, the certain harbingers of disunion, violence, and civil war, and the ultimate destruction of our free institutions It should be our constant and earnest endeavor mutually to cultivate a spirit of concord and harmony among the various parts of our Confederacy. Of all the great interests which appertain to our country, that of union--cordial, confiding It does not become us to disparage the States governments, nor to discourage them from making proper efforts for their own relief. The resources of the country are abundant, the enterprise and activity of our people proverbial. The spirit of liberty is the sovereign balm for every injury which our institutions may receive. No care that can be used in the construction of our Government, no division of powers, will prove effectual to keep us a free people if The danger to all well-established free governments arises from the unwillingness of the people to believe in its existence. This is the old trick of those who would usurp the government of their country. In the name of democracy they speak, There is, on the contrary, no instance on record of an extensive and well-established republic being changed into an aristocracy. The tendencies of all such governments in their decline is to monarchy, and the antagonist principle to liberty there is the The true spirit of liberty, although devoted, persevering, bold, and uncompromising in principle, that secured is mild and tolerant and scrupulous as to the means it employs. The spirit of party, assuming to be that of liberty The reign of an intolerant spirit of party amongst a free people seldom fails to result in a dangerous accession to the executive power. I assure them, therefore, that it is my intention to use every means in my power to preserve Long the defender of my country's rights in the field, I trust that my fellow-citizens will not see in my earnest desire to preserve peace with foreign powers any indication that their rights will ever be sacrificed. I can conceive of no "The violence of the spirit by which those parties are at this time governed must be greatly mitigated, if not entirely extinguished," he said. " consequences will ensue which are appalling to be thought of," he added. The spirit of liberty had fled, and, avoiding the abodes of. the whole mass of citizens, the Commonwealth had none. Yet the senate continued to meet in the temple of liberty to talk of the sacredness and beauty of the A calamity so awful, not only to our country, but to the world, must be deprecated by every patriot. Such a tendency has existed--does exist. It is union that we want, not of a party for the sake I wish for the support of no member of that body to any measure of mine that does not satisfy his judgment and his sense of duty to those from whom he holds his appointment. I deem the present occasion sufficiently important and solemn to justify "Let us unite in fervently commending every interest of our beloved country in all future time," he said. "I shall enter upon their performance with entire confidence in the support of a just and generous people"
"This is preeminently the time to speak the truth, the whole truth, frankly and boldly," he says. "This great Nation will endure as it has endured, will revive and will prosper," he adds.  values have shrunken to fantastic levels; taxes have risen; our ability to pay has fallen. Government of all kinds is faced by serious curtailment of income. Nature still offers her bounty and human efforts have multiplied it. Plenty is at The money changers have fled from their high seats in the temple of our civilization. They know only the rules of a generation of self-seekers. They have no vision, and when there is no vision the people perish. The joy and moral stimulation of work no longer must be forgotten in the mad chase of evanescent profits. These dark days will be worth all they cost us if they teach us that our true destiny is not to be ministered unto This Nation asks for action, and action now. Our greatest primary task is to put people to work. This is no unsolvable problem if we face it wisely and courageously. It can be accomplished in part by direct recruiting by There are many ways in which it can be helped, but it can never be helped merely by talking about it. We must act and act quickly. There must be a strict supervision of all banking and credits and investments. I favor as a practical policy the putting of first things first. I shall spare no effort to restore world trade by international economic readjustment, but the emergency at home cannot wait on that accomplishment. It is the insistence, as a "It is the way to recovery. It is the strongest assurance that the recovery will endure" "Without such discipline no progress is made, no leadership becomes effective" I pledge unhesitatingly the leadership of this great army of our people dedicated to a disciplined attack upon our common problems. Action in this image and to this end is feasible under the form of government which we have inherited from our ancestors "I am prepared under my constitutional duty to recommend the measures that a stricken Nation in the midst of a stricken world may require" "I shall not evade the clear course of duty that will then confront me" The people of the United States have not failed. In their need they have registered a mandate that they want direct, vigorous action. They have asked for discipline and direction under leadership. In the spirit of the gift I take it.
"I find in the presence of this respectable assembly an opportunity of publicly repeating my profound sense of so distinguished a confidence and of the responsibility united with it," he said. It was not declared on the part of the United States until it had been long made on them, in reality though not in name. On the issue of the war are staked our national sovereignty on the high seas and the security of The war has been waged on our part with scrupulous regard to all these obligations, and in a spirit of liberality which was never surpassed. The cruel sufferings of that portion of the American people have found their way to every bos They have refused to consider as prisoners of war, and threatened to punish as traitors and deserters, persons emigrating without restraint to the United States. Such is the avowed purpose of a Government which is in the practice British commanders have extorted victory over the unconquerable valor of our troops. glut their savage thirst with the blood of the vanquished and to finish the work of torture and death on maimed and defenseless captives. Our nation is in number more than half that of the British Isles. It is composed of a brave, a free, a virtuous, and an intelligent people. Our country abounds in the necessaries, the arts, and the com British circulation and British vaults, have poured them into those of the United States. It is a propitious consideration that an unavoidable war should have found this seasonable facility for the contributions required to support it. "Nothing is wanting to correspondent triumphs there also but the discipline and habits which are in daily progress. heroic enterprise assure us," he said.
Presidential inauguration is a time-honored custom. Obama: "I proceed, in compliance with usage, to announce some of the leading principles" I wish now, when every motive for misrepresentation has passed away, to repeat what was said before the election, trusting that my countrymen will candidly weigh and understand it. The permanent pacification of the country upon such principles and Many of the calamitous efforts of the tremendous revolution which has passed over the Southern States still remain. The people of those States are still impoverished, and the inestimable blessing of wise, honest, and peaceful local self-government The question we have to consider for the immediate welfare of those States of the Union is the question of government or no government; of social order and all. It must be a government which guards the interests of both races carefully and equally. The emancipation of 4,000,000 people was a wise, just, and providential act, fraught with good for all concerned. That a moral obligation rests upon the National Government to act is not generally conceded throughout the country. The The evils which afflict the Southern States can only be removed or remedied by the united and harmonious efforts of both races, actuated by motives of mutual sympathy and regard. I am sincerely anxious to use every legitimate influence in favor In the important work of restoring the South it is not the political situation alone that merits attention. Universal suffrage should rest upon universal education. Let me assure my countrymen of the Southern States that it is my earnest desire to regard and "I ask the attention of the public to the paramount necessity of reform in our civil service," he said. "A reform that shall be thorough, radical, and complete," he added. Both political parties are virtually pledged to give it their unreserved support. The President of the United States of necessity owes his. secure in his tenure as long as his personal character remained untarnished and the performance of his duties satisfactory. The depression in all our varied commercial and manufacturing interests throughout the country, which began in September, 1873, still continues. It is very gratifying, however, to be able to say that there are indications all around us of a The only safe paper currency is one which rests upon a coin basis and is at all times and promptly convertible into coin. I adhere to the views heretofore expressed by me in favor of Congressional legislation in behalf of an early resumption President Grant's policy of submitting to arbitration grave questions in dispute between ourselves and foreign powers points to a new instrumentality for the preservation of peace. noninterference in the affairs of foreign nations has proved of great value in past times and For the first time in the history of the country it has been deemed best, in view of the peculiar circumstances of the case, that the objections and questions in dispute with reference to the counting of the electoral votes should be referred to a Human judgment is never unerring, and is rarely regarded as otherwise than wrong by the unsuccessful party in the contest. The fact that two great political parties have in this way settled a dispute is an occasion for general rejoicing. "I call upon you, Senators, Representatives, judges, fellow-citizens, here and everywhere, to unite with me in an earnest effort to secure to our country the blessings, not only of material prosperity, but of justice, peace
"I shall not attempt to describe the grateful emotions which the new and very distinguished proof of the confidence of my fellow-citizens, evinced by my reelection to this high trust," he said. President-elect Barack Obama was elected to a second term in office on November 4, 2008. Obama was the first African-American to be elected to the White House. The events of one year have influence on those of another, and, in like manner, of a preceding on the succeeding Administration. The events of that war are too recent and too deeply impressed on the memory of all to require a development Not less than $120,000,000 were added at its end to the public debt. fortifications at proper points through the whole extent of our coast. augmentation of our naval force. Fortifications are judiciously placed on our great inlets, as distant from our cities as circumstances will permit, they will form the only points of attack. A force adequate to the enemy, collected at that single point, with a If there were no fortifications, then the enemy might go where he pleased, and, changing his position and sailing from place to place. Our force must be called out and spread in vast numbers along the whole coast and on both sides The President says the measures will be completed in a few years. The conduct of the Government in what relates to foreign powers is always an object of the highest importance to the nation. Peace and good will have been, and will hereafter be The war between Spain and the colonies in South America was then the only conflict that remained unsettled. This contest was considered at an early stage by my predecessor a civil war in which the parties were entitled to equal rights in our ports. Congress has acted on this principle, having made no change in our relations with either party. Our attitude has therefore been that of neutrality between them, which has been maintained by the Government with the strictest impartiality. No aid has been I have no hesitation in stating it as my opinion that the neutrality heretofore observed should still be adhered to. From the change in the Government of Spain and the negotiation now depending, invited by the Cortes and accepted by the I am satisfied had a less decisive course been adopted that the worst consequences would have resulted from it. We have seen that these checks, decisive as they were, were not sufficient to crush that piratical spirit. Many culprits brought within I have acted on this principle, pardoning those who appear to have been led astray by ignorance of the criminality of the acts they had committed. Great confidence is entertained that the late treaty with Spain, which has been ratified by both It secures to the United States a territory important in itself, and whose importance is much increased by its bearing on many of the highest interests of the Union. It gives us several excellent harbors in the Gulf of Mexico for ships of The convention regulating the commerce between the United States and Great Britain, concluded on the 3d of July, 1815, was revived and continued for the term of ten years from the time of its expiration. No agreement has yet been entered  relations with the Barbary Powers are preserved in the same state and by the same means that were employed when I came into this office. As early as 1801 it was found necessary to send a squadron into the Mediterranean for the protection of The payment of nearly $67,000,000 of the public debt, with the great progress made in measures of defense and in other improvements of various kinds since the late war, are conclusive proofs of this extraordinary prosperity. These expenditures have The revenue has considerably diminished, the effect of which has been to compel Congress either to abandon these great measures of defense or to resort to loans or internal taxes to supply the deficiency. Anxious to relieve my fellow-citizens in 1817 I made that recommendation under a pledge that should the public exigencies require a recurrence to them at any time while I remained in this trust, I would with equal promptitude perform the duty which would then be alike incumbent on me Internal duties and excises, with corresponding imposts on foreign articles of the same kind, would, without imposing any serious burdens on the people, enhance the price of produce, promote our manufactures, and augment the revenue. The progress of our settlements westward, supported as they are by a dense population, has constantly driven them back. They have claims on the magnanimity and, I may add, on the justice of this nation which we must all My earnest hope is that Congress will digest some plan, founded on these principles, with such improvements as their wisdom may suggest, and carry it into effect as soon as it may be practicable. Europe is again unsettled and the prospect of We. have rights which it is our duty to maintain. For like injuries it will be incumbent on us to seek redress in a spirit of amity. For more imminent dangers we should be prepared. A people who were able to surmount in their infant state such great perils would be more competent as they rose into manhood to repel any which they might meet in their progress. In our whole system, national and State, In this great nation there is but one order, that of the people, whose power, by a peculiarly happy improvement of the representative principle, is transferred from them. Perfection in our organization could not have been expected in the outset Twenty-five years ago the river Mississippi was shut up and our Western brethren had no outlet for their commerce. What has been the progress since that time? The river has not only become the property of the United States from its source to The United States now enjoy the complete and uninterrupted sovereignty over the whole territory from St. Croix to the Sabine. Louisiana, with a fair and liberal boundary on the western side and the Floridas on the eastern, have been c "With full confidence in the continuance of that candor and generous indulgence from my fellow-citizens at large which I have heretofore experienced, and with a firm reliance on the protection of Almighty God, I shall forthwith
"No heart but my own can know the personal regret and bitter sorrow over which I have been borne to a position so suitable for others rather than desirable for myself" "You have summoned me in my weakness; you must sustain me by North Carolina's accession to the U.S. Constitution was a subject of special congratulation in 1787. President George Washington congratulated North Carolina on its "recent accession" to the Constitution. It is no paradox to say that although comparatively weak the new-born nation was intrinsically strong. Inconsiderable in population and apparent resources, it was upheld by a broad and intelligent comprehension of rights and an all-pervading The oppressed throughout the world from that day to the present. understand which their minds had been illuminated by the dawning lights of the Revolution. The object sought was not a thing dreamed of; it was a thing realized. They had exhibited "No example can be powerful for lasting good, which is not based upon eternal principles of right and justice" "Our fathers decided for themselves, both upon the hour to declare and thehour to strike" The apprehension of dangers from extended territory, multiplied States, accumulated wealth, and augmented population has proved to be unfounded. The policy of my Administration will not be controlled by any timid forebodings of evil from expansion. "We have nothing in our history or position to invite aggression," he says. "I intend that my Administration shall leave no blot upon our fair record" It is not your privilege as a nation to speak of a distant past. Administration would be unworthy of confidence at home or respect abroad. No apparent advantage can be purchased at a price so dear as that of national wrong. "We have heretofore been independent. From their wars, their tumults, and anxieties we have been, happily, almost entirely exempt. But the vast interests of commerce are common to all mankind," he said. The rights which belong to us as a nation are not alone to be regarded, but those which pertain to every citizen in his individual capacity, at home and abroad, must be sacredly maintained. So long as he can discern every "The rights, security, and repose of this Confederacy reject the idea of interference or colonization on this side of the ocean by any foreign power," he said. The Army as organized must be the nucleus around which in every time of need the strength of your military power, the sure bulwark of your defense. The skill and self-devotion of the Navy assure you that you may take the "If this reasonable expectation be not realized, I frankly confess that one of your leading hopes is doomed to disappointment, and that my efforts in a very important particular must result in a humiliating failure," he said. "I shall fulfill this difficult and delicate trust, admitting no motive as worthy either of my character or position which does not contemplate an efficient discharge of duty and the best interests of my country" "I acknowledge my obligations to the masses of The dangers of a concentration of all power in the general government of a confederacy so vast as ours are too obvious to be disregarded. The great scheme of our constitutional liberty rests upon a proper distribution of power between the State and I am moved by no other impulse than a most earnest desire for the perpetuation of that Union which has made us what we are. The sentiments I now announce were not unknown before the expression of the voice which called me here. My With the Union my best and dearest earthly hopes are entwined. Without it what are we individually or collectively? Do my countrymen need any assurance that such a catastrophe is not to overtake them? I believe that involuntary servitude, as it exists in different States of this Confederacy, is recognized by the Constitution. I believe that it stands like any other admitted right, and that the States where it exists are entitled to efficient remedies to I hold that the laws of 1850, commonly called the "compromise measures," are strictly constitutional and to be unhesitatingly carried into effect. I believe that the constituted authorities of this Republic are bound to regard the rights of "We have been carried in safety through a perilous crisis," he said. " Wise counsels, like those which gave us the Constitution, prevailed to uphold it" "I hope for my country that the kind Providence which smiled upon our fathers may enable their children to preserve the blessings they have inherited," he said.
In early times, men of reflection were less apprehensive of danger from the formidable power of fleets and armies than from those contests and dissensions which would certainly arise. Relying on the purity of their intentions, the justice of their cause The zeal and ardor of the people during the Revolutionary war, supplying the place of government, commanded a degree of order sufficient at least for the temporary preservation of society. Negligence of its regulations, inattention to its recommendations Jealousies and rivalries of States, decline of navigation and commerce, discouragement of necessary manufactures, universal fall in the value of lands and their produce, contempt of public and private faith, loss of consideration and credit with foreign nations I read it with great satisfaction, as the result of good heads prompted by good hearts, as an experiment better adapted to the genius, character, situation, and relations of this nation and country than any which had ever been proposed or suggested I have repeatedly laid myself under the most serious obligations to support the Constitution. I have acquired an habitual attachment to it and veneration for it. What other form of government, indeed, can so well deserve our esteem and love? "Can anything essential, anything more than mere ornament and decoration, be added to this by robes and diamonds?" he asks. "Can authority be more amiable and respectable when it springs fresh from the hearts and judgments of an honest and The existence of such a government as ours for any length of time is a full proof of a general dissemination of knowledge and virtue throughout the whole body of the people. If an election is to be determined by a majority of a single vote If that solitary suffrage can be obtained by foreign nations by flattery or menaces, by fraud or violence, by terror, intrigue, or venality, the Government may not be the choice of the American people, but of foreign His name may be still a rampart, and the knowledge that he lives a bulwark, against all open or secret enemies of his country's peace. This example has been recommended to the imitation of his successors by both Houses of Congress "I. will be admitted as an apology if I venture to say that if a preference, upon principle, of a free republican government, formed upon long and serious reflection, after a diligent and impartial inquiry after truth," he writes The U.S. should. encourage schools, colleges, universities, academies, and every institution for propagating knowledge, virtue, and religion among all classes of the people. The president's speech was his first as president. It was written in response to the French invasion of France in 1914. The U.S. had a long friendship with France. "If success cannot be obtained, to lay the facts before the Legislature, that they may consider what further measures the honor and interest of the Government and its constituents demand" "I feel it to be my duty to add, with humble "I entertain no doubt of its continuance in all its energy, and my mind is prepared without hesitation to support it to the utmost of my power," he said.
It is now three days more than a hundred years since the adoption of the first written constitution of the United States. The new Republic was then beset with danger on every hand. The decisive battle of the war for independence had not yet "We cannot overestimate the fervent love of liberty, the intelligent courage, and the sum of common sense with which our fathers made the great experiment of self-government" "Under this Constitution the boundaries of freedom have been enlarged, Under this Constitution twenty-five States have been added to the Union, with constitutions and laws, framed and enforced by their own citizens. The jurisdiction of this Constitution now covers an area fifty times greater than that of the original thirteen States The supremacy of the nation and its laws should be no longer a subject of debate. The discussion, which for half a century threatened the existence of the Union, was closed at last in the high court of war. The elevation of the negro race from slavery to the full rights of citizenship is the most important political change we have known since the adoption of the Constitution of 1787. It has added immensely to the moral and industrial forces of our people. The emancipated race has already made. and enfeebled both. It has surrendered to their own guardianship the manhood of more than 5,000,000 people, and has opened to each one of them a career of Equal suffrage is still in question, and a frank statement of the issue may aid its solution. It is alleged that in many communities negro citizens are practically denied the freedom of the ballot. Bad local government is certainly a great evil, which ought to be prevented. But to violate the freedom and sanctities of the suffrage is more than an evil. It is a crime which, if persisted in, will destroy the Government We have no standard by which to measure the disaster that may be brought upon us by ignorance and vice in the citizens. The voters of the Union, who make and unmake constitutions, and upon whose will hang the destinies The nation itself is responsible for the extension of the suffrage, and is under special obligations to aid in removing the illiteracy which it has added to the voting population. All the constitutional power of the nation and of the States should be We may hasten or we may retard, but we cannot prevent, the final reconciliation. Is it not possible for us now to make a truce with time by anticipating and accepting its inevitable verdict? Gold and silver afford the only safe foundation for a monetary system. Confusion has recently been created by variations in the relative value of the two metals. Congress should provide that the compulsory coinage of silver now required by law may not disturb Grave doubts have been entertained whether Congress is authorized by the Constitution to make any form of paper money legal tender. Such paper should depend for its value and currency upon its convenience in use and its prompt redemption in coin. The interests of agriculture deserve more attention from the Government than they have yet received. The farms of the United States afford homes and employment for more than one-half our people. As the Government lights our coasts for the protection of mariners U.S. should build ship canals or railways across the isthmus which unites the continents. Constitution guarantees absolute religious freedom. Congress prohibited from making law respecting an establishment of religion. The Mormon Church not only offends the moral sense of manhood by sanctioning polygamy, but prevents the administration of justice through ordinary instrumentalities of law. In my judgment it is the duty of Congress, while respecting to the uttermost "I shall at the proper time ask Congress to fix the tenure of the minor offices of the several Executive Departments," he writes. "For the good of the service itself, for the protection of those who are intrusted "I appeal to you for that earnest and thoughtful support which makes this Government in fact, as it is in law, a government of the people" "I shall greatly rely upon the wisdom and patriotism of Congress and of those who may
The four years which have elapsed since last I stood in this place have been crowded with counsel and action of the most vital interest and consequence. Perhaps no equal period in our history has been so fruitful of important reforms in our economic and industrial The war inevitably set its mark from the first alike upon our nation. It has been hard to preserve calm counsel while the thought of our own people swayed this way and that under their influence. We are of the blood of all the nations Despite many divisions, we have drawn closer together. We have been deeply wronged upon the seas, but we have not wished to wrong or injure in return. To be indifferent to it, or independent of it, was out of the We stand firm in armed neutrality. We desire neither conquest nor advantage. We wish nothing that can be had only at the cost of another people. We always professed unselfish purpose and we covet the opportunity to prove our professions The tragic events of the thirty months of vital turmoil through which we have just passed have made us citizens of the world. There can be no turning back. Our own fortunes as a nation are involved whether we would have it so or not "The essential principle of peace is the actual equality of nations in all matters of right or privilege" "The seas should be equally free and safe for the use of all peoples, under rules set up by common agreement and consent" " "We are being forged into a new unity amidst the fires that now blaze throughout the world," he said. "I stand here and have taken the high and solemn oath to which you have been audience because the people of the United States I realize to the full the responsibility which it involves. I pray God I may be given the wisdom and the prudence to do my duty. I am their servant and can succeed only as they sustain and guide me. "I beg your tolerance, your countenance and your united aid," he writes. "The shadows that now lie dark upon our path will soon be dispelled"
On this day, prescribed by law and marked by ceremony, we celebrate the durable wisdom of our Constitution and recall the deep commitments that unite our country. For a half a century, America defended our own freedom by standing watch on distant borders The best hope for peace in our world is the expansion of freedom in all the world. resentment and tyranny, prone to ideologies that feed hatred and excuse murder, violence will gather and multiply in destructive power. The U.S. seeks and supports the growth of democratic movements and institutions in every nation and culture. America will not impose our own style of government on the unwilling. My most solemn duty is to protect this Nation and its people from further attacks and emerging threats. Some have unwisely chosen to test America's resolve and have found it firm. We will persistently clarify the choice before every ruler and America's belief in human dignity will guide our policies. Rights must be more than the grudging concessions of dictators. They are secured by free dissent and the participation of the governed. Democratic reformers facing repression, prison, or exile can know: America sees you for who you are, the future leaders of your free country. Division among free nations is a primary goal of freedom's enemies. Our country has accepted obligations that are difficult to fulfill and would be dishonorable to abandon. A few Americans have accepted the hardest duties in this cause. Some have shown their devotion to our country in deaths that honored their whole lives. President Obama: "America has need of idealism and courage because we have essential work at home" "In America's ideal of freedom, citizens find the dignity and security of economic independence" We will widen the ownership of homes and businesses, retirement savings, and health insurance, preparing our people for the challenges of life in a free society. By making every citizen an agent of his or her own destiny, we will give our Americans move forward in every generation by reaffirming all that is good and true that came before. In America's ideal of freedom, the exercise of rights is ennobled by service and mercy. Americans of every party and background, Americans by choice and by birth are bound to one another in the cause of freedom. We felt the unity and fellowship of our Nation when freedom came under attack, and our response came like a single hand When our Founders declared a new order of the ages, they were acting on an ancient hope that is meant to be fulfilled. America, in this young century, proclaims liberty throughout all the world and to all the inhabitants thereof.
"I appear, my fellow-citizens, in your presence and in that of Heaven to bind myself by the solemnities of religious obligation to the faithful performance of the duties allotted to me" It is the work of our forefathers. Administered by some of the most eminent men who contributed to its formation, through a most eventful period in the annals of the world. It has not disappointed the hopes and aspirations The year of jubilee since the first formation of our Union has just elapsed; that of the declaration of our independence is at hand. The consummation of both was effected by this Constitution. Since that period a coordinate department of A territory bounded by the Mississippi has been extended from sea to sea. New States have been admitted to the Union in numbers nearly equal to those of the first Confederation. Treaties of peace, amity, and commerce have been concluded with The U.S. has suffered sometimes by the visitation of Heaven through disease; often by the wrongs and injustice of other nations, even to the extremities of war. Such is the unexaggerated picture of our condition under a "It is a source of gratification and of encouragement to me to observe that the great result of this experiment upon the theory of human rights has at the close of that generation been crowned with success equal to the most sanguine expectations of The revolutionary wars of Europe, commencing precisely at the moment when the Government of the United States first went into operation under this Constitution, excited a collision of sentiments and of sympathies. This time of trial embraced a period of five and After the peace with Great Britain, this baneful weed of party strife was uprooted. From that time no difference of principle has existed or been called forth in force sufficient to sustain a continued combination of parties. "The policy of our country is peace and the ark of our salvation union are articles of faith upon which we are all now agreed," he said. "If there have been projects of partial confederacies to be erected upon the Ten years of peace, at home and abroad, have assuaged the animosities of political contention. There still remains one effort of magnanimity, one sacrifice of prejudice and passion, to be made by the individuals. Whatsoever is of domestic concernment belongs exclusively to the administration of the State governments. Whatsoever directly involves the rights and interests of the federative fraternity or of foreign powers is of the resort of this General Government. To respect the rights The harmony of the nation is promoted and the whole Union is knit together by the sentiments of mutual respect, the habits of social intercourse, and the ties of personal friendship. prejudices everywhere too commonly entertained against distant strangers are worn away. President George W. Bush paid tribute to his predecessor as president. Bush: "It has passed away in a period of profound peace, how much to the satisfaction of our country" The internal taxes have been repealed; sixty millions of the public debt have been discharged. Provision has been made for the comfort and relief of the aged and indigent among the surviving warriors of the Revolution. The regular armed force has been reduced "To pursue to their consummation those purposes of improvement in our common condition instituted or recommended by him will embrace the whole sphere of my obligations" "I recur with peculiar satisfaction. To the topic of internal improvement, emphatically urged Nearly twenty years have passed since the construction of the first national road was commenced. The authority for its construction was then unquestioned. To how many thousands of our countrymen has it proved a benefit? "I cannot but hope that by the same process of friendly, patient, and persevering deliberation all constitutional objections will ultimately be removed" " devoted to the welfare of our country, and the unceasing application of all the faculties allotted to me to her service are all the pledges that I can give," he said.
There is no constitutional or legal requirement that the President shall take the oath of office in the presence of the people, but there is so manifest an appropriateness in the public induction to office of the chief executive officer of the nation. Presidential term which begins this day is the twenty-sixth under our Constitution. First inauguration of President Washington took place in New York, where Congress was then sitting. Congress will soon celebrate the institution of the second great department of our constitutional scheme of government. I will not attempt to note the marvelous and in great part happy contrasts between our country as it steps over the threshold into its second century of organized The Territory of Dakota has now a population greater than any of the original States (except Virginia) and greater than the aggregate of five of the smaller States in 1790. The masses of our people are better fed, clothed, and housed than their fathers were. The facilities for popular education have been vastly enlarged and more generally diffused. The virtues of courage and patriotism have given recent proof of their continued presence The commercial policy of the mother country had not relaxed any of its hard and oppressive features. Petitions poured in upon Congress urging the imposition of discriminating duties. The divergent interests of peace speedily demanded a "more perfect union"  patriotism of the people, which no longer found afield of exercise in war, was energetically directed to the duty of equipping the young Republic. Societies for the promotion of home manufactures and for encouraging the use of domestics Pennsylvania and New England should not have led or walked abreast with the New England States in the production of cotton fabrics. Mill fires were lighted at the funeral pile of slavery. The cotton plantation will not be less valuable when Every new mine, furnace, and factory is an extension of the productive capacity of the State more real and valuable than added territory. How long will those who rejoice that slavery no longer exists cherish or tolerate the incapacities it put upon their I have altogether rejected the suggestion of a special Executive policy for any section of our country. I do not doubt that if those men in the South who now accept the tariff views of Clay and the constitutional expositions of Webster would courage The duty to obey and to execute embraces the Constitution in its entirety and the whole code of laws enacted under it. As a citizen may not elect what laws he will obey, neither may the Executive elect which he will enforce. The community that by concert, open or secret, among its citizens denies to a portion of its members their plain rights under the law has severed the only safe bond of social order and prosperity. An unlawful expedient cannot become a permanent condition Law is the rule of conduct, not mobs, execute its penalties. Naturalization laws should be so amended as to make inquiry into character and good disposition of persons applying for citizenship more careful and searching. There are men of all races, even the best, whose coming is necessarily a burden upon our public revenues or a threat to social order. These should be identified and excluded. We have happily maintained a policy of avoiding all interference with European We have a clear right to expect, therefore, that no European Government will seek to establish colonial dependencies upon the territory of these independent American States. That which a sense of justice restrains us from seeking they may be reasonably expected willingly Our interests are so exclusively American that our entire inattention to any events that may transpire elsewhere can be taken for granted. Our citizens domiciled for purposes of trade in all countries and in many of the islands of the sea An intelligent diplomacy or of friendly arbitration in proper cases should be adequate to the peaceful adjustment of all international difficulties. By such methods we will make our contribution to the world's peace, which no nation values more highly, and avoid the opp A high sense of duty and an ambition to improve the service should characterize all public officers. Honorable party service will certainly not be esteemed by me a disqualification for public office. I hope to do something more to advance the reform of the civil service. The ideal, or even my own ideal, I shall probably not attain. As the number of such in the civil list is increased removals from office will Wastefulness, profligacy, or favoritism in public expenditures is criminal. Expenditure should always be made with economy and only upon public necessity. The construction of a sufficient number of modern war ships and of their necessary armament should progress as rapidly as is consistent with care and perfection in plans and workmanship. The spirit, courage, and skill of our naval officers and seamen It is a subject of congratulation that there is a near prospect of the admission into the Union of the Dakotas and Montana and Washington Territories. The people who have settled these Territories are intelligent, enterprising, and patriotic. The The National Congress has not as yet taken control of elections in that case over which the Constitution gives it jurisdiction. Only the inefficiency of the State laws or an unfair partisan administration of them could suggest a departure from this policy. The people The results of such elections are not local, and the insistence of electors residing in other districts that they shall be pure and free does not savor at all of impertinence. The man who has come to regard the ballot box as A party success achieved by unfair methods or by practices that partake of revolution is hurtful and evanescent even from a party standpoint. Let those who would die for the flag on the field of battle give a better proof of their patriotism "I do not mistrust the future. Dangers have been in frequent ambush along our path, but we have uncovered and vanquished them all" "No political party can long pursue advantage at the expense of public honor" "We will turn from them all to crown with the highest honor the State that has most promoted education, virtue, justice, and patriotism among its people"
"I was summoned by my country, whose voice I can never hear but with veneration and love," he said. "The magnitude and difficulty of the trust to which the voice of my country called me, being sufficient to awaken in "I have been my faithful study to collect my duty from a just appreciation of every circumstance by which it might be affected," he writes. "All I dare hope is that if, in executing this task, I have been too much "No people can be bound to acknowledge and adore the Invisible Hand which conducts the affairs of men more than those of the United States," he writes. "In tendering this homage to the Great Author of every public and private good, President: "The tranquil deliberations and voluntary consent of so many distinct communities" cannot be compared with the means by which most governments have been established. "These reflections, arising out of the present crisis, have forced themselves too strongly on "It will be more consistent with those circumstances, and far more congenial with the feelings which actuate me, to substitute, in place of a recommendation of particular measures, the tribute that is due to the talents, the "I dwell on this prospect with every satisfaction which an ardent love for my country can inspire," he writes. "The propitious smiles of Heaven can never be expected on a nation that disregards the eternal rules of order and right which It will remain with your judgment to decide how far an exercise of the occasional power delegated by the fifth article of the Constitution is rendered expedient. I assure myself that whilst you carefully avoid every alteration which might endanger the benefits of an united "I have one to add, which will be most properly addressed to the House of Representatives. It concerns myself, and will therefore be as brief as possible. When I was first honored with a call into the service of my country, "I shall take my present leave," he said. "But not without resorting once more to the benign Parent of the Human Race in humble supplication"
On each national day of Inauguration since 1789, the people have renewed their sense of dedication to the United States. To us there has come a time, in the midst of swift happenings, to pause for a moment and Eight years ago, when the life of this Republic seemed frozen by a fatalistic terror, we proved that this is not true. We were in the midst of shockbut we acted. We acted quickly, boldly, decisively. Prophets of the downfall of American democracy have seen their dire predictions come to naught. action has been taken within the three-way framework of the Constitution of the United States. The Bill of Rights remains inviolate. The A Nation, like a person, has a body that must be fed and clothed and housed, invigorated and rested, in a manner that measures up to the standards of our time. A Nation has something deeper, something more permanent The democratic aspiration is no mere recent phase in human history. It permeated the ancient life of early peoples. It blazed anew in the Middle Ages. America has been the New World in all tongues, and to all peoples. The hopes of the Republic cannot forever tolerate either undeserved poverty or self-serving wealth. Without the body and the mind, as all men know, the Nation could not live. The destiny of America was proclaimed in words of prophecy spoken by our first President in his first Inaugural in 1789. Sometimes we fail to hear or heed these voices of freedom because to us the privilege of our freedom is such an "The preservation of the spirit and faith of the Nation does, and will, furnish the highest justification for every sacrifice that we may make in the cause of national defense," he says.
I have taken this oath without mental reservation and with the determination to do to the best of my ability all that is required of me. The responsibilities of the position I feel, but accept them without fear. The office has come to me Laws are to govern all alike--those opposed as well as those who favor them. I know no method to secure the repeal of bad or obnoxious laws so effective as their stringent execution. Every dollar of Government indebtedness should be paid in gold, unless otherwise expressly stipulated in the contract. The return to a specie basis as soon as it can be accomplished without material detriment to the debtor class or to the country at It looks as though Providence had bestowed upon us a strong box in the precious metals locked up in the sterile mountains of the far West, and which we are now forging the key to unlock. Ultimately it may be necessary to insure the facilities A prostrate commerce is to be rebuilt and all industries encouraged. Legislation upon this subject may not be necessary now, or even advisable. It will be my endeavor to execute all laws in good faith. I would deal with nations as equitable law requires individuals to deal with each other. I would respect the rights of all nations, demanding equal respect for our own. The proper treatment of the original occupants of this land--the Indians one deserving I ask patient forbearance one toward another throughout the land, and a determined effort on the part of every citizen to do his share toward cementing a happy union. I ask the prayers of the nation to Almighty God in behalf of this
"In the orderly transfer of power, we celebrate the unity that keeps us free" "The spiraling pace of change allows us to contemplate, within our own lifetime, advances that once would have taken centuries" "For the first time Eight years from now America will celebrate its 200th anniversary as a nation. The greatest honor history can bestow is the title of peacemaker, Obama says. I know America's youth. I believe in them. We can be proud that they are better educated, more committed, more passionately driven by conscience than any generation in our history. No people has ever been so close to the achievement of President Obama: "We find ourselves rich in goods, but ragged in spirit" Obama: We are caught in war, wanting peace. We are torn by division, wanting unity. We cannot learn from one another until we stop shouting at one another. We will strive to listen to the voices of quiet anguish, the voices that speak without words. Those who have been left out, we will try to bring in. "We shall plan now for the day when our wealth can be transferred from the destruction of war abroad to the urgent needs of our people at home," Obama says. "The American dream does not come to those who fall asleep," he "I ask you to join in a high adventure--one as rich as humanity itself, and exciting as the times we live in," he says. "Until he has been part of a cause larger than himself, no man is truly "To go forward at all is to go forward together," Obama says. "This means black and white together, as one nation, not two" "We are entering an era of negotiation," he says. Congressman: Let us go to the new worlds together, not as new worlds to be conquered, but as a new adventure to be shared. I have come to know the leaders of the world and the great forces, the hatreds I have seen the hunger of a homeless child, the pain of a man wounded in battle, the grief of a mother who has lost her son. I know America. I speak from my own heart, and the heart of my country A few weeks ago we shared the glory of man's first sight of the world as God sees it, as a single sphere reflecting light in the darkness. In that moment of surpassing technological triumph, men turned their thoughts toward home and "We have endured a long night of the American spirit," Obama says. "Let us not curse the remaining dark. Let us gather the light"
President-elect Barack Obama addresses citizens of the United States. Obama: "I do not consider it necessary at present for me to discuss those matters of administration" "I believe I have no lawful right to do so," he said. "Those who nominated and elected me did so with full knowledge that I had made this" There is much controversy about the delivering up of fugitives from service or labor. The clause I now read is as plainly written in the Constitution. It is scarcely questioned that this provision was intended by those who made it. All members of Congress swear their support to the whole Constitution--to this provision as much as to any other. If the slave is to be surrendered, it can be of but little consequence to him or to others by which authority it is "I take the official oath to-day with no mental reservations and with no purpose to construe the Constitution or laws by any hypercritical rules," he said. "It will be much safer for all, both in official and private A disruption of the Federal Union, heretofore only menaced, is now formidably attempted. I hold that in contemplation of universal law and of the Constitution the Union of these States is perpetual. Perpetuity is implied, One party to a contract may violate it, but does it not require all to lawfully rescind it? The Union is much older than the Constitution. It was formed, in fact, by the Articles of Association. The Union is 'less' perfect than before the Constitution, having lost the vital element of perpetuity. No State upon its own mere motion can lawfully get out of the Union; that 'resolves' and 'ordinances' to The power confided to me will be used to hold, occupy, and possess the property and places belonging to the Government. Beyond what may be necessary for these objects, there will be no invasion, no using of force against or among The mails, unless repelled, will continue to be furnished in all parts of the Union. So far as possible the people everywhere shall have that sense of perfect security which is most favorable to calm thought and reflection. All profess to be content in the Union if all constitutional rights can be maintained. Is it true, then, that any right plainly written in the Constitution has been denied? I think not. No organic law can ever be framed with a provision specifically applicable to every question which may occur in practical administration. No foresight can anticipate nor any document of reasonable length contain express provisions for all possible questions. From questions of this class spring The central idea of secession is the essence of anarchy. A majority held in restraint by constitutional checks and limitations, and always changing easily. Is there such perfect identity of interests among the States to compose a new union as to produce harmony only The rule of a minority, as a permanent arrangement, is wholly inadmissible. Whoever rejects it does of necessity fly to anarchy or to despotism. Unanimity is impossible. The fugitive-slave clause of the Constitution and the law for. better be borne than could the evils of a different practice. One section of our country believes slavery is 'right' and ought to be extended, while the other believes it The slave trade and the suppression of the foreign slave trade are each as well enforced, perhaps, as any law can ever be in a community. The great body of the people abide by the dry legal obligation in both cases, and a Can aliens make treaties easier than friends can make laws? Can treaties be more faithfully enforced between aliens than laws can among friends? I cannot be ignorant of the fact that many worthy and patriotic citizens are desirous of having the National Constitution I should, under existing circumstances, favor rather than oppose a fair opportunity being afforded the people to act upon it. I will venture to add that to me the convention mode seems preferable, in that it allows amendments to originate with the people The Chief Magistrate derives all his authority from the people, and they have referred none upon him to fix terms for the separation of the States. Why should there not be a patient confidence in the ultimate justice of the people? Is there My countrymen, one and all, think calmly and 'well' upon this whole subject. Nothing valuable can be lost by taking time. If there be an object to 'hurry' any of you in hot haste to a step In 'your' hands, my dissatisfied fellow-countrymen, and not in 'mine', is the momentous issue of civil war. The Government will not assail 'you' You can have no conflict without being yourselves the aggressors U.S. Union, when again touched, as surely they will be, by the better angels of our nature.
President Barack Obama asks his fellow Americans to pray for him. Obama: "I ask that you bow your heads: Almighty God" We sense with all our faculties that forces of good and evil are massed and armed and opposed as rarely before in history. We are summoned by this honored and historic ceremony to witness more than the act of one citizen swearing his oath of "In the swift rush of great events, we find ourselves groping to know the full sense and meaning of these times in which we live," he says. "We summon all our knowledge of the past and we scan all signs of This trial comes at a moment when man's power to achieve good or to inflict evil surpasses the brightest hopes and the sharpest fears of all ages. At such a time in history, we who are free must proclaim anew our faith All men are equal in God's sight. This faith rules our whole way of life. It decrees that we, the people, elect leaders not to rule but to serve. It asserts that we have the right to choice of our The enemies of this faith know no god but force, no devotion but its use. Whatever defies them, they torture, especially the truth. This conflict strikes directly at the faith of our fathers and the lives of our sons. No free people can for long cling to any privilege or enjoy any safety in economic solitude. We need markets in the world for the surpluses of our farms and our factories. Equally, we need for these same farms and factories "We face the threat--not with dread and confusion--but with confidence and conviction," he says. "We feel this moral strength because we know that we are not helpless prisoners of history. We are free men" We hold it to be the first task of statesmanship to develop the strength that will deter the forces of aggression and promote the conditions of peace. Realizing that common sense and common decency alike dictate the futility of appeasement, We view our Nation's strength and security as a trust upon which rests the hope of free men everywhere. It is the firm duty of each of our free citizens and of every free citizen everywhere to place the cause of his country before the We shall strive to foster everywhere, and to practice ourselves, policies that encourage productivity and profitable trade. In Europe, we ask that enlightened and inspired leaders of the Western nations. assume, within the limits of their resources, their full and Only as free Europe unitedly marshals its strength can it effectively safeguard, even with our help, its spiritual and cultural heritage. We hold all continents and peoples in equal regard and honor. We reject any insinuation that one race or A people that values its privileges above its principles soon loses both. Patriotism means equipped forces and a prepared citizenry. Love of liberty means the guarding of every resource that makes freedom possible. "Whatever America hopes to bring to pass in the world must first come to pass" "No person, no home, no community can be beyond the reach of this call" "This is the hope that beckons us onward in this
"I express the deep sense I entertain of this new proof of confidence from my fellow-citizens at large," he says. "We have done them justice on all occasions, favored where favor was lawful," he adds. The suppression of unnecessary offices, of useless establishments and expenses, enabled us to discontinue our internal taxes. These, covering our land with officers and opening our doors to their intrusions, had already begun that process of domiciliary vex The remaining revenue on the consumption of foreign articles is paid chiefly by those who can afford to add foreign luxuries to domestic comforts. These contributions enable us to support the current expenses of the Government, to fulfill contracts with foreign nations, In time of war, if injustice by ourselves or others must sometimes produce war, increased as the same revenue will be by increased population and consumption, and aided by other resources reserved for that crisis. War will then be but a suspension of In matters of religion I have considered that its free exercise is placed by the Constitution independent of the powers of the General Government. I have undertaken on no occasion to prescribe the religious exercises suited to it, but have left them, as the "Without power to divert or habits to contend against it, they have been overwhelmed by the current or driven before it" "Humanity enjoins us to teach them agriculture and the domestic arts" "Those who feel themselves something in the present order of things and fear to become nothing in any other. life, to induce them to exercise their reason, follow its dictates, and change their pursuits with the change of circumstances" In giving these outlines I do not mean, fellow-citizens, to arrogate to myself the merit of the measures. That is due, in the first place, to the reflecting character of our citizens at large. It is due to These abuses of an institution so important to freedom and science are deeply to be regretted, inasmuch as they tend to lessen its usefulness and to sap its safety. They might, indeed, have been corrected by the wholesome punishments reserved The U.S. experiment has been tried; you have witnessed the scene; our fellow-citizens looked on, cool and collected. They saw the latent source from which these outrages proceeded; they gathered around their public functionaries No other definite line can be drawn between the inestimable liberty of the press and its demoralizing licentiousness. If there be still improprieties which this rule would not restrain, its supplement must be sought in the censorship Law and order preserved, equality of rights maintained, and that state of property, equal or unequal, which results to every man from his own industry or that of his father's. When satisfied of these views it is not in human nature The weaknesses of human nature and the limits of my own understanding will produce errors of judgment sometimes injurious to your interests. I shall need, therefore, all the indulgence which I have heretofore experienced from my constituents. I ask
"I assume the arduous and responsible duties of President of the United States," he says. "Our faith teaches that there is no safer reliance than upon the God of our fathers," he adds. Our currency should continue under the supervision of the Government. Most of our financial laws are the outgrowth of experience and trial, and should not be changed. Congress should create a commission to take under early consideration the revision of our coinage, banking and currency laws. If such power is vested in the President, it is my purpose to appoint a commission of prominent, well-informed citizens of The U.S. experiment is, at all events, worth a trial, and, in my opinion, it can but prove beneficial to the entire country. It will be my constant endeavor to secure it by co-operation with the The present must not become the permanent condition of the Government. The Government should not be permitted to run behind or increase its debt in times like the present. A deficiency is inevitable so long as the expenditures of the Government exceed its receipts. It can only be met by loans or an increased revenue. A large annual surplus of revenue may invite waste and extravagance. The best way for the Government to maintain its credit is to pay as it goes. The U.S. ultimately pay, while its ability to pay is not strengthened, but weakened by a continued deficit. The controlling principle in the raising of revenue from duties on imports is zealous care for American interests and American labor. The people have declared that such legislation should be had as will give ample protection and encouragement to the industries and the development of Congress must restore the protective legislation which has always been the firmest prop of the Treasury. The passage of such a law or laws would strengthen the credit of the Government both at home and abroad. The depression of the past four years has fallen with especial severity upon the great body of toilers of the country, and upon none more than the holders of small farms. Agriculture has languished and labor suffered. The revival of Business conditions are not the most promising. It will take time to restore the prosperity of former years. Congress will not, I am sure, be found lacking in disposition or ability to relieve it. "The great essential to our happiness and prosperity is that we adhere to the principles upon which the Government was established," he said. "The people love and will sustain these institutions," he added. The preservation of public order, the right of discussion, the integrity of courts, and the orderly administration of justice must continue forever. Lynchings must not be tolerated in a great and civilized country like the United States. The party now restored to power has been in the past that of "opposition to all combinations of capital organized in trusts, or otherwise, to control arbitrarily the condition of trade among our citizens" Congressman: Illiteracy must be banished from the land if we shall attain that high destiny. Reforms in the civil service must go on, but the changes should be real and genuine, not perfunctory. Congress should give prompt attention to the restoration of our American merchant marine, once the pride of the seas. The United States has progressed with marvelous rapidity in every field of enterprise and endeavor. The U.S. must have a merchant marine amply sufficient for our own carrying trade to foreign countries. It will be our aim to pursue a firm and dignified foreign policy, which shall be just, impartial, ever watchful Arbitration is the true method of settlement of international as well as local or individual differences. Peace is preferable to war in almost every contingency. Our diplomacy should seek nothing more and accept nothing less than is due us. The treaty between the United States and Great Britain was signed at Washington and transmitted to the Senate for its ratification in January last. The importance and moral influence of the ratification of such a treaty can hardly be overestimated in the cause of advancing Each President avoids convening Congress in extraordinary session. Congress alone has the power to provide revenues for the Government. Not to convene it under such circumstances is the neglect of a plain duty. There could be no better time to put the Government upon a sound financial and economic basis than now. The people have only recently voted that this should be done, and nothing is more binding upon the agents of their will than the obligation of President Theodore Roosevelt: "We can approach the problem calmly and patriotically, without fearing its effect upon an early election" "Whatever action Congress may take will be given a fair opportunity for trial before the people are called to pass judgment upon The North and the South no longer divide on the old lines, but upon principles and policies. Let us rejoice in and cultivate this spirit; it is ennobling and will be both a gain and a blessing to our beloved country. "I will faithfully execute the office of President of the United States," he said. "To keep it will be my single purpose, my constant prayer," he added. "I shall cheerfully do everything possible to promote and increase it
There has been a change of government. It began two years ago, when the House of Representatives became Democratic by a decisive majority. It has now been completed. The offices of President and Vice-President have been put into the hands of Some new things, as we look frankly upon them, willing to comprehend their real character, have come to assume the aspect of things long believed in and familiar, stuff of our own convictions. We have been refreshed by a new insight into We have squandered a great part of what we might have used, and have not stopped to conserve the exceeding bounty of nature. We have been proud of our industrial achievements, but we have not hitherto stopped thoughtfully enough to count With the great Government went many deep secret things which we too long delayed to look into and scrutinize with candid, fearless eyes. The great Government we loved has too often been made use of for private and selfish purposes, and those who "We had not forgotten our morals. We remembered well enough that we had set up a policy which was meant to serve the humblest as well as the most powerful," he said. "But we were very heedless and in A tariff which cuts us off from our proper part in the commerce of the world, violates the just principles of taxation, and makes the Government a facile instrument in the hand of private interests. A banking and currency system based upon the We have studied as perhaps no other nation has the most effective means of production, but we have not studied cost or economy as we should either as organizers of industry, as statesmen, or as individuals. Nor have we studied and perfected The first duty of law is to keep sound the society it serves. Sanitary laws, pure food laws, and laws determining conditions of labor are intimate parts of the very business of justice and legal efficiency. These are some of the things Justice, and only justice, shall always be our motto. The Nation has been deeply stirred, stirred by a solemn passion. The feelings with which we face this new age of right and opportunity sweep across our heartstrings. "I summon all honest men, all patriotic, all forward-looking men, to my side. God helping me, I will not fail them, if they will but counsel and sustain me!"
At this second appearing to take the oath of the Presidential office there is less occasion for an extended address than there was at the first. The progress of our arms, upon which all else chiefly depends, is as well known to the public One-eighth of the whole population were colored slaves, not distributed generally over the Union, but localized in the southern part of it. All knew that this interest was somehow the cause of the war. Neither party expected for the war Both read the same Bible and pray to the same God, and each invokes His aid against the other. The prayers of both could not be answered. That of neither has been answered fully. The Almighty has His own purposes. Fondly do we hope, fervently do we pray, that this mighty scourge of war may speedily pass away. Yet, if God wills that it continue until all the wealth piled by the bondsman's two hundred and fifty
Inaugural address is to give a summary outline of the main policies of the new administration, so far as they can be anticipated. I should be untrue to myself, to my promises, and to the declarations of the party platform upon The steps which my predecessor took and the legislation passed on his recommendation have accomplished much. To render the reforms lasting, and to secure at the same time freedom from alarm on the part of those pursuing proper and progressive business methods, further legislative "I hope to be able to submit at the first regular session of the incoming Congress, in December next, definite suggestions in respect to the needed amendments to the antitrust and the interstate commerce law," he said. I believe that the amendments to be proposed are just as necessary in the protection of legitimate business as in the clinching of the reforms which properly bear the name of my predecessor. A matter of most pressing importance is the revision of the tariff It is thought that there has been such a change in conditions since the enactment of the Dingley Act, drafted on a similarly protective principle, that the measure of the tariff above stated will permit the reduction of rates in certain schedules. It The tariff is more important in the long run than the perfecting of the reforms in respect to antitrust legislation and interstate commerce regulation. To secure the needed speed in the passage of the tariff bill, it would seem wise to attempt no other Current fiscal year will exceed the receipts by $100,000,000. It is imperative that such a deficit shall not continue. New kinds of taxation must be adopted. The scope of a modern government in what it can and ought to accomplish for its people has been widened far beyond the principles laid down by the old "laissez faire" school of political writers. In the Department of Agriculture the use A permanent improvement, like the Panama Canal, should be treated as a distinct enterprise, and should be paid for by the proceeds of bonds, the issue of which will distribute its cost between the present and future generations. I refer to the cost of maintaining a proper army, a proper navy, and suitable fortifications upon the mainland of the United States and in its dependencies. We should have an army so organized and so officered as to be capable in The distance of our shores from Europe and Asia of course reduces the necessity for maintaining under arms a great army. In a few years however, the usual annual appropriations for our coast defenses will make them sufficient to resist all direct attack. Our international policy is always to promote peace. We shall enter into any war with a full consciousness of the awful consequences that it always entails, whether successful or not. We favor every instrumentality, like that of the Hague Tribunal and arbitration "We must be ourselves in a similar condition, in order to prevent other nations from taking advantage of us," he says. "In the international controversies that are likely to arise in the Orient the United States can maintain her interests intact" The policy of the United States in the Spanish war and since has given it a position of influence among the nations that it never had before. We should make every effort to prevent humiliating and degrading prohibition against any of our citizens wishing temporarily to I sincerely hope that we may continue to minimize the evils likely to arise from such immigration without unnecessary friction and by mutual concessions between self-respecting governments. Meantime we must take every precaution to prevent, or failing that, to The duty to keep them is in States or cities, not within our control. We cannot permit the possible failure of justice, due to local prejudice in any State or municipal government. The monetary commission, lately appointed, is giving full consideration to existing conditions and to all proposed remedies. We may hope that the report will embody neither the narrow dew of those who believe that the sole purpose of the new system should be Incoming Congress should pass a proper postal savings bank bill. It will not be unwise or excessive paternalism. The promise to repay by the Government will furnish an inducement. The direct effect of free trade between this country and the Philippines will be marked upon our sales of cottons, agricultural machinery, and other manufactures. The necessity of the establishment of direct lines of steamers between North and South America has The Panama Canal will have a most important bearing upon the trade between the eastern and far western sections of our country. The type of the canal as a lock canal was fixed by Congress after a full consideration of the conflicting reports. Some type of canal must be constructed. The lock type has been selected. We are all in favor of having it built as promptly as possible. The prosperity of Porto Rico continues unabated. The business conditions in the Philippines are not all that we could wish them to be. With the passage of the new tariff bill permitting free trade between the United States and the archipelago I look forward with hope to increasing the already good feeling between the South and the other sections of the country. The consideration of this question cannot, however, be complete and full without reference to the negro race, its progress and its present The thirteenth and fourteenth amendments have been generally enforced and have secured the objects for which they are intended. The tendency of Southern legislation today is toward the enactment of electoral qualifications which shall square with that amendment. With this change, the interest which many of the Southern white citizens take in the welfare of the negroes has increased. The danger of the control of an ignorant electorate has therefore passed. It is not the disposition or within the province of the Federal Government to interfere with the regulation by Southern States of their domestic affairs. There is in the South a stronger feeling than ever among the intelligent well-to-do, and influential The negroes are now Americans. Their ancestors came here years ago against their will. They have shown themselves anxious to live for it and to die for it. We are charged with the sacred duty of making their path as smooth and easy The Executive, in recognizing the negro race by appointments, must exercise a careful discretion not thereby to do it more harm than good. Meantime, if nothing is done to prevent it, a better feeling between the negroes and the The future of the South is to be much benefited by the industrial and intellectual progress of the negro. The exercise of political franchises by those of this race who are intelligent and well to do will be acquiesced in. The right to vote In previous administrations an arbitration law for interstate commerce railroads and their employees had been passed. I am strongly convinced that the Government should make itself as responsible to employees injured in its employ as an interstate-railway corporation is made responsible by Federal courts should not be able to issue injunctions in industrial disputes, he says. Such a proposition is at variance with the American instinct, he adds. The secondary boycott is an instrument of tyranny, and ought not to be made legitimate. The issue of a temporary restraining order without notice has in several instances been abused by its inconsiderate exercise. A statute can and ought to be framed "I invoke the considerate sympathy and support of my fellow-citizens and the aid of the Almighty God in the discharge of my responsible duties," he said.
President-elect Barack Obama takes the oath of office on the Bible his mother gave him. Obama: "This inauguration ceremony marks a new beginning, a new dedication within our Government, and a new spirit among us all" "I have no new dream to set forth today, but rather urge a fresh faith in the old dream," he said. "Ours was the first society openly to define itself in terms of both spirituality and human liberty" I believe America can be better. We can be even stronger than before. Let our recent mistakes bring a resurgent commitment to the basic principles of our Nation. If we despise our own government, we have no future. We cannot afford to do everything, nor can we afford to lack boldness as we meet the future. Our Nation can be strong abroad only if it is strong at home. We will not behave in foreign places so as to violate our The passion for freedom is on the rise. Tapping this new spirit, there can be no nobler nor more ambitious task for America than to help shape a just and peaceful world that is truly humane. We are a proudly idealistic The world is still engaged in a massive armaments race designed to ensure continuing equivalent strength among potential adversaries. We pledge perseverance and wisdom in our efforts to limit the world's armaments to those necessary for each nation's own domestic safety I would hope that the nations of the world might say that we had built a lasting peace, based not on weapons of war but on international policies which reflect our own most precious values. These are not just my goals---and they will
Each time we gather to inaugurate a President we bear witness to the enduring strength of our Constitution. We recall that what binds this Nation together is not the colors of our skin or the tenets of our faith or the origins of our names The patriots of 1776 did not fight to replace the tyranny of a king with the privileges of a few or the rule of a mob. They gave to us a republic, a government of and by and for the people, ent We have never relinquished our skepticism of central authority nor have we succumbed to the fiction that all society's ills can be cured through government alone. No single person can train all the math and science teachers we'll need to equip our A decade of war is now ending. An economic recovery has begun. America's possibilities are limitless. We. must do these things together, as one nation and one people. We understand that outworn programs are inadequate to the needs of our time. We must harness new ideas and technology to remake our government. But while the means will change, our purpose endures: a nation that rewards the effort and determination We do not believe that in this country freedom is reserved for the lucky, or happiness for the few. The commitments we make to each other through Medicare and Medicaid and Social Security, these things do not sap our initiative, they strengthen us The path towards sustainable energy sources will be long and sometimes difficult. America cannot resist this transition, we must lead it. We cannot cede to other nations the technology that will power new jobs and new industries. We will defend our people and uphold our values through strength of arms and rule of law. We will show the courage to try and resolve our differences with other nations peacefully. America will remain the anchor of strong alliances in every corner of the We must be a source of hope to the poor, the sick, the marginalized, the victims of prejudice. Peace in our time requires the constant advance of those principles that our common creed describes: tolerance and opportunity, human dignity and justice "Our journey is not complete until no citizen is forced to wait for hours to exercise the right to vote," she says. "Our gay brothers and sisters are treated like anyone else under the law," she adds. "That is our "We cannot mistake absolutism for principle," Obama says. "We must act, knowing that our work will be imperfect" The words I spoke today are not so different from the oath that is taken each time a soldier signs up for duty or an immigrant realizes her dream. They are the words of citizens and they represent our greatest hope. You and I,
"I am conscious that the position which I have been called to fill, though sufficient to satisfy the loftiest ambition, is surrounded by fearful responsibilities," he said. "In the performance of my new duties I shall not be without able I hope to execute diligently, impartially, and for the best interests of the country the manifold duties devolved upon me. In the discharge of these duties my guide will be the Constitution, which I this day swear to "preserve "I this day renew the declarations I have heretofore made and proclaim my fixed determination to maintain to the extent of my ability the Government in its original purity" "As American freemen we cannot but sympathize in all efforts to extend the blessings of civil and political liberty," he said. "But we are warned by the admonitions of history and the voice of our own beloved Washington to abst The President must exhaust every resort of honorable diplomacy before appealing to arms. The appointing power vested in the President imposes delicate and onerous duties. It is to be hoped that no international question can now arise which a government confident in its own I will zealously unite with the coordinate branches of the Government. I shall look with confidence to the enlightened patriotism of that body to adopt such measures of conciliation as may harmonize conflicting interests. In conclusion I congratulate you. "Let us invoke a continuance of the same protecting care which has led us from small beginnings to the eminence we this day occupy" "Let us seek to deserve that continuance by prudence and moderation in our councils"
I have been called a second time to act as Executive over this great nation. It has been my endeavor in the past to maintain all the laws, and, so far as lay in my power, to act for the best interests of Under our Republic we support an army less than that of any European power of any standing. There could be no extension of territory on the continent which would call for an increase of this force. Social equality is not a subject to be legislated upon, nor shall I ask that anything be done to advance the social status of the colored man. This is wrong, and should be corrected. I believe that our Great Maker is preparing the world, in His own good time, to become one nation, speaking one language, and when armies and navies will be no longer required. My efforts in the future will be directed to "It is either this or war of our own making," he says. "I call for the restoration of our currency to a fixed value as compared with the world's standard of values--gold" War of extermination, engaged in by people pursuing commerce and all industrial pursuits, are expensive even against the weakest people, and are demoralizing and wicked. Our superiority of strength and advantages of civilization should make us lenient toward the Indian. "I acknowledge before this assemblage, representing, as it does, every section of our country, the obligation I am under to my countrymen," he said. "I promise, looking forward with the greatest anxiety to the day I performed a conscientious duty, without asking promotion or command, and without a revengeful feeling toward any section or individual. growing out of that event I did not ask for place or position, and was entirely without influence or the acquaintance of
"No people on earth have more cause to be thankful than ours," he said. "We are the heirs of the ages, and yet we have had to pay few penalties" We have duties to others and duties to ourselves; and we can shirk neither. Toward all other nations, large and small, our attitude must be one of cordial and sincere friendship. But justice and generosity in a nation, "We wish peace, but we wish the peace of justice," he said. "No weak nation that acts manfully and justly should ever have cause to fear us" Never before have men tried so vast and formidable an experiment as that of administering the affairs of a continent under the forms of a Democratic republic. If we fail, the cause of free self-government throughout the world will rock to its foundations There is no good reason why we should fear the future, but there is every reason to face it seriously. We know that self-government is difficult. But we have faith that we shall not prove false to the memories of the men We must show, not merely in great crises, but in the everyday affairs of life, the qualities of practical intelligence, of courage, of hardihood, and endurance, and above all the power of devotion to a lofty ideal.
"I stand here today humbled by the task before us, grateful for the trust you have bestowed, mindful of the sacrifices borne by our ancestors," Obama says. "That we are in the midst of crisis is now well understood. Homes have been lost, jobs shed, businesses shuttered. Our health care is too costly. Our schools fail too many. Each day brings evidence that the ways we use energy strengthen our adversaries and threaten our planet. The time has come to set aside childish things. and false promises, the recriminations and worn-out dogmas that for far too long have strangled our politics. In reaffirming the greatness of our Nation, we understand that For us, they packed up their few worldly possessions and traveled across oceans in search of a new life. They toiled in sweatshops and settled the West, endured the lash of the whip, and plowed the hard Earth. For "The state of the economy calls for action, bold and swift," Obama says. "We will act not only to create new jobs but to lay a new foundation for growth" The question we ask today is not whether our Government is too big or too small, but whether it works. Where the answer is yes, we intend to move forward. President Obama: "The Nation cannot prosper long when it favors only the prosperous" Obama: America's ability to expand freedom is unmatched. "We reject as false the choice between our safety and our ideals" We are ready to lead once more. friend of each nation and every man, woman, and child who seeks a future of peace and dignity. Recall that earlier generations faced down fascism and communism not just with missiles and tanks but with sturdy We are a nation of Christians and Muslims, Jews and Hindus and nonbelievers. We are shaped by every language and culture, drawn from every end of this Earth. We will not apologize for our way of life, nor will we To those leaders around the globe who seek to sow conflict or blame their society's ills on the West, know that your people will judge you on what you can build, not what you destroy. To the people of poor nations, The fallen heroes who lie in Arlington whisper through the ages. We honor them not only because they are guardians of our liberty, but because they embody the spirit of service. It is the kindness to take in a stranger when the levees Honesty and hard work, courage and fair play, tolerance and curiosity, loyalty and patriotism are old. They have been the quiet force of progress throughout our history. What is demanded then is a return to these truths. In the year of America's birth, a small band of patriots huddled by dying campfires on the shores of an icy river. At a moment when the outcome of our Revolution was most in doubt, the Father of our Nation "Let it be said by our children's children that when we were tested, we refused to let this journey end," he said. "We did not turn back, nor did we falter. And with eyes fixed on the horizon
President Theodore Roosevelt: "When we assembled here on the 4th of March, 1897, there was great anxiety with regard to our currency and credit" "Now they are sufficient for all public needs," he said. The national verdict of 1896 has for the most part been executed. Whatever remains unfulfilled is a continuing obligation resting with undiminished force upon the Executive and the Congress. Four years ago we stood on the brink of war without the people knowing it and without any preparation or effort at preparation for the impending peril. I did all that in honor could be done to avert the war, but without avail. It "I enter upon its administration appreciating the great responsibilities which attach to this renewed honor and commission" "I should shrink from the duties this day assumed if I did not feel that in their performance I should have the co-operation of Sectionalism has disappeared. Division on public questions can no longer be traced by the war maps of 1861. Distrust of the capacity, integrity, and high purposes of the American people will not be an inspiring theme for future political The prophets of evil were not the builders of the Republic, nor in its crises since have they saved or served it. The faith of the fathers was a mighty force in its creation, and the faith of their descendants has wrought its progress "The path of progress is seldom smooth," he says. "We will be consoled, too, with the fact that opposition has confronted every onward movement" The U.S. has had 125 years of achievement for mankind. We adhere to the principle of equality among ourselves. By no act of ours will we assign to ourselves a subordinate rank. U.S. policy will be that of moderation and fairness. With our near neighbors we must remain close friends. The declaration of the purposes of this Government in the resolution of April 20, 1898, must be made good. The principles which led to our intervention require that the fundamental law upon which the new government rests should be adapted. The peace which we are pledged to leave to the Cuban people must carry with it the guaranties of permanence. We became Congress has indicated no form of government for the Philippine Islands. It has, however, provided an army to enable the Executive to suppress insurrection, restore peace, give security to the inhabitants. The Congress has added the sanction of its authority to the powers already possessed and exercised by the Executive under the Constitution. I shall continue the efforts already begun until order shall be restored throughout the islands. As fast as conditions permit will establish local The most liberal terms of amnesty have already been communicated to the insurgents. The way is still open for those who have raised their arms against the Government. We are not waging war against the inhabitants of the Philippine Islands. The U.S. will not leave the destiny of the loyal millions the islands to the disloyal thousands who are in rebellion against the United States. Order under civil institutions will come as soon as those who now break the peace shall keep
The peaceful transfer of authority is rare in history, yet common in our country. With a simple oath, we affirm old traditions and make new beginnings. I am honored and humbled to stand here where so many of America's leaders have America's faith in freedom and democracy was a rock in a raging sea. Now it is a seed upon the wind, taking root in many nations. Our democratic faith is more than the creed of our country. It is the inborn America has never been united by blood or birth or soil. We are bound by ideals that move us beyond our backgrounds, lift us above our interests, and teach us what it means to be citizens. Every child must be taught these principles America at its best matches a commitment to principle with a concern for civility. Civility is not a tactic or a sentiment; it is the determined choice of trust over cynicism, of community over chaos. We must show courage in a time of blessing by confronting problems instead of passing them on to future generations. Together we will reclaim America's schools before ignorance and apathy claim more young lives. We will reform Social Security and Medicare, sparing We know that deep, persistent poverty is unworthy of our Nation's promise. Abandonment and abuse are not acts of God; they are failures of love. Where there is suffering, there is duty. Americans in need are not strangers; America at its best is a place where personal responsibility is valued and expected. Encouraging responsibility is not a search for scapegoats; it is a call to conscience. Children and community are the commitments that set us free. I will live and lead by these principles: to advance my convictions with civility, to serve the public interest with courage, to speak for greater justice and compassion. In all these ways, I will bring the values of our history to When this spirit is present, no wrong can stand against it. We renew that purpose today, to make our country more just and generous. We affirm the dignity of our lives and every life. God directs this storm. God bless you all, and God bless America.
I accept with humility the honor which the American people have conferred upon me. In performing the duties of my office, I need the help and the prayers of every one of you. The tasks we face are difficult. We can accomplish them The peoples of the earth face the future with grave uncertainty, composed almost equally of great hopes and great fears. In this time of doubt, they look to the United States as never before for good will, strength, and wise leadership. The U.S. desire, and are determined to work for, a world in which all nations and all peoples are free to govern themselves as they see fit. In the pursuit of these aims, the United States and other like- Democracy is based on the conviction that man has the moral and intellectual capacity, as well as the inalienable right, to govern himself with reason and justice. Communism subjects the individual to arrest without lawful cause, punishment without trial, These differences between communism and democracy do not concern the United States alone. People everywhere are coming to realize that what is involved is material well-being, human dignity and the right to believe in and worship God. We have made every effort to secure agreement on effective international control of our most powerful weapon. We have encouraged, by precept and example, the expansion of world trade on a sound and fair basis. Our efforts have brought new hope to all We are ready to undertake new projects to strengthen a free world. The initiative is ours. We are moving on with other nations to build an even stronger structure of international order and justice. We believe that the United Nations will be strengthened by We are confident of the success of this major venture in world recovery. We believe that our partners in this effort will achieve the status of self-supporting nations once again. In addition, we must carry out our plans for reducing the Every country participating in these arrangements must contribute all it can to the common defense. I hope soon to send to the Senate a treaty respecting the North Atlantic security plan. We will provide military advice and equipment to free nations which will cooperate with The United States is pre-eminent among nations in the development of industrial and scientific techniques. We invite other countries to pool their technological resources in this undertaking. Their contributions will be warmly welcomed. The old imperialism--exploitation for foreign profit--has no place in our plans. What we envisage is a program of development based on the concepts of democratic fair-dealing. All countries, including our own, will greatly Only by helping the least fortunate of its members to help themselves can the human family achieve the decent, satisfying life that is the right of all people. Democracy alone can supply the vitalizing force to stir the peoples of the world into triumphant We are weaving a world fabric of international security and growing prosperity. We are aided by all who wish to live in freedom from fear--even by those who live today in fear under their own governments. Our allies are the millions who hunger "What we have achieved in liberty, we will surpass in greater liberty," he says. "With God's help, the future of mankind will be assured in a world of justice, harmony, and peace"
"I am sure my gratitude can make no better return than the pledge I now give before God and these witnesses of unreserved and complete devotion" "It behooves us to constantly watch for every symptom of insidious infirmity that threatens our national vigor," he said. "Nothing is more vital to our supremacy as a nation and to the beneficent purposes of our Government In dealing with our present embarrassing situation we will be wise if we temper our confidence and faith in our national strength and resources. At the same time, in our efforts to adjust differences of opinion we should be free from intolerance or passion. A popular disposition to expect from the operation of the Government especial and direct individual advantages. This is the bane of republican institutions and the constant peril of our government by the people. The lessons of paternalism ought to be unlearned, he writes. The acceptance of this principle leads to a refusal of bounties and subsidies, he says. The contempt of our people for economy and frugality in their personal affairs deplorably saps the strength and sturdiness of our national character. The toleration of this idea results in the waste of the people's money by Civil-service reform has found a place in our public policy and laws. The benefits already gained through this instrumentality. entitle it to the hearty support and encouragement of all who desire to see our public service well performed. These aggregations and combinations frequently constitute conspiracies against the interests of the people. The enjoyment of this right follows the badge of citizenship wherever found, and, unimpaired by race or color, it appeals for recognition to American manliness The people of the United States have decreed that on this day the control of their Government in its legislative and executive branches shall be given to a political party pledged in the most positive terms to the accomplishment of tariff reform. Our mission is not punishment, but the rectification of wrong. If in lifting burdens from the daily life of our people we reduce inordinate and unequal advantages too long enjoyed, this is but a necessary incident of our return to right and The oath I now take to preserve, protect, and defend the Constitution of the United States not only impressively defines the. taxing power, it also impresses the American people. "I shall to the best of my ability and within my sphere of duty preserve the Constitution by loyally protecting every grant of Federal power it contains" "I find also much comfort in remembering that my countrymen are just and generous "I know there is a Supreme Being who rules the affairs of men and whose goodness and mercy have always followed the American people," Obama said. "He will not turn from us now if we humbly and reverently seek His
"We Americans of today, together with our allies, are passing through a period of supreme test," he said. "It is a test of our courage of our resolve  of our wisdom" The Constitution of 1787 was not a perfect instrument; it is not perfect yet. But it provided a firm base upon which all manner of men, of all races and colors and creeds, could build our solid structure of democracy. We have learned that we must live as men and not as ostriches, nor as dogs in the manger. We have learned the simple truth, as Emerson said, that, "The only way to have a friend is to
I should be destitute of feeling if I was not deeply affected by the strong proof which my fellow-citizens have given me of their confidence in calling me to the high office. As the expression of their good opinion of my conduct in President George W. Bush began his first term as president with a speech on the state of the Union. He explained the causes which have contributed in a principal degree to the present happy condition of the United States. During a period fraught with difficulties and marked by very extraordinary events the United States have flourished beyond example. Under this Constitution our commerce has been wisely regulated with foreign nations and between the States. New States have been admitted into our Union. There has been no example of a capital punishment being inflicted on anyone for the crime of high treason. Some who might admit the competency of our Government might doubt it in trials which put to the test its strength and efficiency. War became at length inevitable, and the result has shown that our Government is equal to that, the greatest of trials, under the most unfavorable circumstances. Of the virtue of the people and of the heroic exploits of the Army, the Navy The United States enjoy all the varieties of climate, and every production incident to that portion of the globe. No country was ever happier with respect to its domain. Such is our peculiar felicity that there is not a part of our Union The great agricultural interest of the nation prospers under its protection. Local interests are not less fostered by it. Our manufactures find a generous encouragement by the policy. The Government has been in the hands of the people. To the people, therefore, and to the faithful and able depositaries of their trust is the credit due. People become ignorant and corrupt, when they degenerate into a populace, that they are incapable of exercising the sovereignty. Usurpation is then an easy attainment, and an usurper soon found. Let us by all wise and constitutional We must support our rights or lose our character, and with it, perhaps, our liberties. A people who fail to do it can scarcely be said to hold a place among independent nations. A single campaign of invasion by a naval force superior to our own, aided by a few thousand land troops, would expose us to greater expense. Our land and naval forces should be moderate, but adequate to the necessary purposes. The safety of these States and of everything dear to a free people must depend in an eminent degree on the militia. Invasions may be made too formidable to be resisted by any land and naval force. In such cases recourse must be had If formed on equal and just principles, it cannot be oppressive. This arrangement should be formed, too, in time of peace, to be the better prepared for war. With such an organization of such a people the United States have nothing Nature has done so much for us by intersecting the country with so many great rivers, bays, and lakes, approaching from distant points so near to each other. A more interesting spectacle was perhaps never seen than is exhibited within the Manufacturers should be domestic, as its influence would be felt advantageously on agriculture and every other branch of industry. With the Indian tribes it is our duty to cultivate friendly relations and to act with kindness and liberality in all our transactions Peace is the best time for improvement and preparation of every kind. The Executive is charged officially in the Departments under it with the disbursement of the public money. I shall do all I can to secure economy and fidelity in this important branch of the Administration. I doubt not that the Legislature will perform its duty with equal zeal. A thorough examination should be regularly made, and I will promote it. " Discord does not belong to our system," he says. "The American people have encountered together great dangers and sustained severe trials with success" "In contemplating what we have still to perform, the heart of every citizen must expand with joy when he reflects how near our Government has approached to perfection," he said. "If we persevere in the career in which we have advanced "From these I shall endeavor to derive all the advantages which they may afford," he said. "I enter on the trust to which I have been called by the suffrages of my fellow-citizens"
When we met here 4 years ago, America was bleak in spirit, depressed by the prospect of seemingly endless war abroad and of destructive conflict at home. As we meet here today, we stand on the threshold of a new era of peace This past year saw far-reaching results from our new policies for peace. By continuing to revitalize our traditional friendships, and by our missions to Peking and to Moscow, we were able to establish the base for a new and more The time has passed when America will make every other nation's conflict our own, says President Obama. Just as we respect the right of each nation to determine its own future, we also recognize the responsibility of each country to secure its own "Let us resolve to move forward from the beginnings we have made," Obama says. "Let us continue to bring down the walls of hostility which have divided the world for too long" We have the chance today to do more than ever before in our history to make life better in America. Just as building a structure of peace abroad has required turning away from old policies that have failed, so building a new era of progress The time has come to turn away from the condescending policies of paternalism. A person can be expected to act responsibly only if he has responsibility. This is human nature. Let us encourage individuals at home and nations abroad to do more Government must learn to take less from people so that people can do more for themselves. America was built not by government, but by people. And I pledge to you that we will act boldly and we will lead boldly. "Let us again learn to debate our differences with civility and decency," Obama says. "Above all else, the time has come for us to renew our faith in ourselves and in America" America's record in this century has been unparalleled in the world's h!story. At every turn we have been beset by those who find everything wrong with America and little that is right. "We are embarking here today on an era that presents challenges as great as those any nation, or any generation, has ever faced," Obama said. "We shall answer to God, to history, and to our conscience for the Let us go forward from here confident in hope, strong in our faith in one another, sustained by ourfaith in God who created us. beacon of hope for all the world.
No one can contemplate current conditions without finding much that is satisfying and still more that is encouraging. Our own country is leading the world in the general readjustment to the results of the great conflict. Many of its burdens will bear heavily "Because of what America is and what America has done, a firmer courage, a higher hope, inspires the heart of all humanity," he said. We stand at the opening of the one hundred and fiftieth year since our national consciousness first asserted itself by unmistakable action with an array of force. examine carefully what we have done, we can determine the more accurately what we can We believe that we can best serve our own country and most successfully discharge our obligations to humanity by continuing to be openly and candidly, intensely and scrupulously, American. If we wish to continue to be distinctively American, we "We cannot permit ourselves to be narrowed and dwarfed by slogans and phrases," he said. "It is not the adjective, but the substantive, which is of real importance" "Our country represents nothing but peaceful intentions toward all the This Nation believes thoroughly in an honorable peace under which the rights of its citizens are to be everywhere protected. It has never found that the necessary enjoyment of such a peace could be maintained only by a great and threatening array of arms. In This policy represents a new departure in the world. It is a thought, an ideal, which has led to an entirely new line of action. America has taken the lead in this new direction, and that lead America must continue to hold I am strongly in favor of continuation of this policy, whenever conditions are such that there is even a promise that practical and favorable results might be secured. In conformity with the principle that a display of reason rather than a threat of force should We cannot barter away our independence or our sovereignty, but we ought to engage in no refinements of logic, no sophistries, and no subterfuges. The weight of our enormous influence must be cast upon the side of We have not failed, nor shall we fail to respond, whenever necessary to mitigate human suffering. protect life and property, and establish responsible government in some of the small countries of the Western Hemisphere. One of the greatest dangers to peace lies in the economic pressure to which people find themselves subjected. Conditions must be provided under which people can make a living and work out of their difficulties. But there is another element, more important than all We are not identified with any Old World interests. We are at peace with all of them. Our program is never to oppress, but always to assist. But while we do justice to others, we must require that justice be done to We can look with a great deal of pleasure upon what we have done abroad. But there is a very definite point beyond which we cannot go. Mindful of these limitations, the one great duty that stands out requires us to use our If there is to be responsible party government, the party label must be something more than a mere device for securing office. There is no salvation in a narrow and bigoted partisanship. When the country has bestowed its confidence upon a party "The expression of the popular will in favor of maintaining our constitutional guarantees was overwhelming and decisive," he said. "The people declared that they wanted their rights to have not a political but a judicial determination," he added. The resources of this country are almost beyond computation. The cost of our combined governments is likewise almost beyond definition. I favor the policy of economy, not because I wish to save money, but because I want to save people. Every dollar that we prudently save means that their life will be so much the more abundant. Under this republic the rewards of industry belong to those who earn them. The only constitutional tax is the tax which ministers to public necessity. The time is arriving when we can have further tax reduction, when, unless we wish to hamper the people in their right to earn a living, we must have tax reform. I am opposed to extremely high rates, because they This country believes in prosperity. It is absurd to suppose that it is envious of those who are already prosperous. The wise and correct course to follow in taxation and all other economic legislation is not to destroy those who have already secured success The very stability of our society rests upon production and conservation. For individuals or for governments to waste and squander their resources is to deny these rights and disregard these obligations. The result of economic dissipation to a nation is always moral decay In a republic the first rule for the guidance of the citizen is obedience to law. Under a despotism the law may be imposed upon the subject. Those who want their rights respected under the Constitution and the law ought to set the The essence of a republic is representative government. Our Congress represents the people and the States. In all legislative affairs it is the natural collaborator with the President. There is no more independent and effective legislative body in the world. The last election showed that appeals to class and nationality had little effect. We were all found loyal to a common citizenship. The fundamental precept of liberty is toleration. We cannot permit any inquisition either within or without the law. America seeks no earthly empire built on blood and force. No ambition, no temptation, lures her to thought of foreign dominions. The higher state to which she seeks the allegiance of all mankind is not of human, but of divine
President Eisenhower: "We observe today not a victory of party but a celebration of freedom" President Truman: "The belief that the rights of man come not from the generosity of the state but from the hand of God" President Obama: "We shall pay any price, bear any burden, meet any hardship, support any friend, oppose any foe to assure the survival and the success of liberty" "United, there is little we cannot do in a host We pledge our best efforts to help them help themselves, for whatever period is required. If a free society cannot help the many who are poor, it cannot save the few who are rich. We shall not always expect to find them supporting "Let every other power know that this Hemisphere intends to remain the master of its own house" "We renew our pledge of support to the United Nations, our last best hope in an age where the instruments of war have far outpaced Both sides are overburdened by the cost of modern weapons. Let both sides seek to invoke the wonders of science instead of its terrors. Let us never negotiate out of fear. But let us never fear to negotiate. "Let both sides unite to heed in all corners of the earth the command of Isaiah--to undo the heavy burdens . . . (and) let the oppressed go free" "In your hands, my fellow citizens, more than mine "I do not shrink from this responsibility--I welcome it," Obama says. "The energy, the faith, the devotion which we bring to this endeavor will light our country," he says. "My fellow citizens of the world: ask not what America will do for you, but what together we can do for the freedom of man," he says. "With a good conscience our only sure reward, with history the final judge
"I must humbly invoke the God of our fathers for wisdom and firmness to execute its high and responsible duties" "I owe my election to the inherent love for the Constitution and the Union which still animates the hearts of the Congress is neither "to legislate slavery into any Territory or State nor to exclude it therefrom, but to leave the people thereof perfectly perfectly" Congress has prescribed that when the Territory of Kansas shall be admitted as a State it "shall be received into the Union with or without slavery" A difference of opinion has arisen in regard to the point of time when the people of a Territory It is the imperative and indispensable duty of the Government of the United States to secure to every resident inhabitant the free and independent expression of his opinion by his vote. The whole Territorial question being thus settled upon the principle of popular sovereignty The long agitation on this subject is approaching its end, and that the geographical parties to which it has given birth, so much dreaded by the Father of his Country, will speedily become extinct. Most happy will it be for the country It is an evil omen of the times that men have undertaken to calculate the mere material value of the Union. Time is a great corrective. Free trade is conducted on railroads and canals, on noble rivers and arms of the sea. Annihilate this trade, arrest its free progress by the geographical lines of jealous and hostile States, and you destroy the prosperity and onward "Our present financial condition is without a parallel in history," he says. "Public virtue is the vital spirit of republics, and history proves that when this has decayed" The U.S. has ever before been embarrassed from too large a surplus in its treasury. This almost necessarily gives birth to extravagant legislation. The natural mode of relief from this embarrassment is to appropriate the surplus in the Treasury. It is the principle that no more revenue ought to be collected from the people than the amount necessary to defray the expenses of a wise, economical, and efficient administration of the Government. To reach this point it was necessary to resort to It is our cardinal policy to reserve these lands, as much as may be, for actual settlers, and this at moderate prices. We shall thus not only best promote the prosperity of the new States and Territories, by furnishing them a The Federal Constitution is a grant from the States to Congress of certain specific powers. The question whether this grant should be liberally or strictly construed has divided political parties from the beginning. Under the war-making power Congress may appropriate money toward the construction of a military road when this is absolutely necessary. Government, both in peace and in war, have been granted, either in express terms or by the plainest implication. In the event of a war with a naval power much stronger than our own we should then have no other available access to the Pacific Coast. Such a power would instantly close the route across the isthmus of Central America. It is I believe that many of the difficulties in the way, which now appear formidable, will in a great degree vanish as soon as the nearest and best route shall have been satisfactorily ascertained. I forbear for the present from expressing We ought to cherish a sacred regard for the independence of all nations, and never attempt to interfere in the domestic concerns of any unless this shall be imperatively required by the great law of self-preservation. To avoid entangling alliances "I shall now proceed to take the oath prescribed by the Constitution, whilst humbly invoking the blessing of Divine Providence on this great people"
Senator John Stennis: "I'll do my utmost to be deserving of your trust" President: "There are no words adequate to express my thanks for the great honor that you've bestowed on me" President Obama: "In this blessed land, there is always a better tomorrow" "So much has changed, and yet we stand together as we did two centuries ago," he says. We asked things of government that government was not equipped to give. We yielded authority to the National Government that properly belonged to States or to local governments or to the people themselves. We allowed taxes and inflation to rob us of our earnings and "We will not rest until every American enjoys the fullness of freedom, dignity, and opportunity as our birthright," Obama says. "If we meet this challenge, these will be years when Americans have restored their confidence and tradition of Two of our Founding Fathers, a Boston lawyer named Adams and a Virginia planter named Jefferson, left us an important lesson. They had become, in the years then in government, bitter political rivals in the Presidential election of 1800. Then On the 50th anniversary of the Declaration of Independence, they both died. They died on the same day, within a few hours of each other, and that day was the Fourth of July. In one of those letters exchanged in the The time has come for a new American emancipation, says President Obama. He calls for a national drive to tear down economic barriers and liberate the economy. "We've come to a turning point, a moment for hard decisions," he said. "If not us, who? And if not now, when?" he asked. I will shortly submit a budget to the Congress aimed at freezing government program spending for the next year. Beyond this, we must take further steps to permanently control government's power to tax and spend. We must act now to protect future generations "There's no story more heartening in our history than the progress that we've made toward the brotherhood of man that God intended for us," he said. "Let us resolve that we, the people, will build an American President Obama: "There is only one way safely and legitimately to reduce the cost of national security" "There must be no wavering by us, nor any doubts by others," he says. "We seek the total elimination one day of nuclear weapons from the face of the Earth," he says. "Is there either logic or morality in believing that if one side threatens to kill tens of millions of our people our only recourse is Since the turn of the century, the number of democracies in the world has grown fourfold. Freedom is one of the deepest and noblest aspirations of the human spirit. America must remain freedom's staunchest friend. President Obama: "We live in a world that's lit by lightning. So much is changing and will change, but so much endures and transcends time" "With our economy. strengthened, with our economy leading the world to It is hopeful, big-hearted, idealistic, daring, decent, and fair. That's our heritage, that's our song. We sing it still. For all our problems, our differences, we are together as of old
"I am about to supplement and seal by the oath which I shall take the manifestation of the will of a great and free people" "I will engage every faculty and effort in the promotion of their welfare" The heat of the partisan should be merged in the patriotism of the citizen. The animosities of political strife, the bitterness of partisan defeat, should be supplanted by an ungrudging acquiescence in the popular will. On this auspicious occasion we may well renew the pledge of our devotion to the Constitution. The Constitution has for almost a century borne the hopes and the aspirations of a great people. "The greatest good to the greatest number" will fail to be accomplished if in the halls of national legislation that spirit of amity and mutual concession shall prevail. If this involves the surrender or postponement of private interests and the abandonment of The Constitution which prescribes his oath, my countrymen, is yours. Every voter, as surely as your Chief Magistrate, exercises a public trust. Every citizen owes to the country a vigilant watch and close scrutiny. "Public extravagance begets extravagance among the people," he says. "We should never be ashamed of the simplicity and prudential economies," he adds. "It is the policy of independence, favored by our position and defended by our known love of justice and by our power," he says. "It is a policy of neutrality, rejecting any share in foreign broils and ambitions upon other The public domain should be protected from purloining schemes and unlawful occupation. The Indians within our boundaries shall be fairly and honestly treated as wards of the Government. The laws should be rigidly enforced which prohibit the immigration of a servile The people demand reform in the administration of the Government and the application of business principles to public affairs. Civil-service reform should be in good faith enforced. All discussion as to their fitness for the place accorded to them as American citizens is idle and unprofitable except as it suggests the necessity for their improvement. Our duties are practical and call for industrious application, an intelligent perception of "Let us invoke His aid and His blessings upon our labors," he said. "He presides over the destiny of nations, and who has at all times been revealed in our country"
"We of the Republic pledged ourselves to drive from the temple of our ancient faith those who had profaned it," he said. "We did those first things first. Our covenant with ourselves did not stop there. Instinctively we This year marks the one hundred and fiftieth anniversary of the Constitutional Convention which made us a nation. At that Convention our forefathers found the way out of the chaos which followed the Revolutionary. A century and a half ago they established the Federal Government in order to promote the general welfare and secure the blessings of liberty to the American people. Four years of new experience have not belied our historic instinct. The Constitution of 1787 did not make our democracy impotent. In fact, in these last four years, we have made the exercise of all power more democratic. We have begun to bring private autocratic powers into their proper subordination We have always known that heedless self-interest was bad morals; we know now that it is bad economics. Out of the collapse of a prosperity whose builders boasted their practicality has come the conviction that in the long run economic morality The greatest change we have witnessed has been the change in the moral climate of America. With this change in our moral climate and our rediscovered ability to improve our economic order, we have set our feet upon the road of enduring progress. The times were on the side of progress. To hold to progress today, however, is more difficult. Dulled conscience, irresponsibility, and ruthless self-interest already reappear. Such symptoms of prosperity may become portents of In this nation I see tens of millions of its citizens who are denied the greater part of what the very lowest standards of today call the necessities of life. I see millions of families trying to live on incomes so meager that the pall of The test of our progress is not whether we add more to the abundance of those who have much; it is whether we provide enough for those who has too little. We are determined to make every American citizen the subject of his country's In our seeking for economic and political. progress as a nation, we all go up, or else we all. go down, as one people. To maintain a democracy of effort requires a vast amount of patience in dealing with differing methods "I assume the solemn obligation of leading the American people forward," Obama says. "I shall do my utmost to speak their purpose and to do their will"
"I assume this trust in the humility of knowledge that only through the guidance of Almighty Providence can I hope to discharge its ever-increasing burdens" "What America has done has given renewed hope and courage to The devotion to and concern for our institutions are deep and sincere. We are steadily building a new race--a new civilization great in its own attainments. The influence and high purposes of our Nation are respected among the peoples of the world The most malign of all these dangers today is disregard and disobedience of law. Crime is increasing. Confidence in rigid and speedy justice is decreasing. I am not prepared to believe that this indicates any decay in the moral fibre of the "The system which these officers are called upon to administer is in many respects ill adapted to present-day conditions" "We are fortunate in the ability and integrity of our Federal judges and attorneys" There is a belief abroad that by invoking technicalities, subterfuge, and delay, the ends of justice may be thwarted by those who can pay the cost. Justice must not fail because the agencies of enforcement are either delinquent or inefficient There would be little traffic in illegal liquor if only criminals patronized it. We must awake to the fact that this patronage from large numbers of law-abiding citizens is supplying the rewards and stimulating crime. I have been selected by you to The duty of citizens to support the laws of the land is coequal with the duty of their Government to enforce the laws which exist. No greater national service can be given by men and women of good will than that they should, by A national commission will investigate the method of enforcement of the 18th amendment and the causes of abuse under it. A large part of the enforcement activities be transferred from the Treasury Department to the Department of Justice as a beginning of more effective organization The election has again confirmed the determination of the American people that regulation of private enterprise and not Government ownership or operation is the course rightly to be pursued in our relation to business. Business regulation should be extended by the Federal Government within the limitations of the Constitution. Self-government does not and should not imply the use of political agencies alone. Progress is born of cooperation in the community--not from governmental. Business has by cooperation made great progress in the advancement of service, in stability, in regularity of employment, and in the correction of its own abuses. Government should assist and encourage these movements of collective self-help by itself cooperating with Self-government can succeed only through an instructed electorate. We cannot hope to succeed in directing this increasingly complex civilization unless we can draw all the talent of leadership from the whole people. In public health the discoveries of science have opened a new era. Public health service should be as fully organized and as universally incorporated into our governmental system. Superficial observers seem to find no destiny for our abounding increase in population, in wealth and power except that of imperialism. They fail to see that the American people are engrossed in the building for themselves of a new economic The recent treaty for the renunciation of war as an instrument of national policy sets an advanced standard in our conception of the relations of nations. We wish to advance the reign of justice and reason toward the extinction of force. American statesmen were among the first to propose, and they have constantly urged upon the world, the establishment of a tribunal for the settlement of controversies of a justiciable character. The reservations placed upon our adherence should not be misinterpreted America should make no political engagements such as membership in the League of Nations, he says. They adhere to the belief that the independence of America from such obligations increases its ability and availability for service, he adds. In thousands of homes in America, in millions of homes around the world, there are vacant chairs. It would be a shameful confession of our unworthiness if it should develop that we have abandoned the hope for which all these men died The desire for peace is as deep and sincere as our own. Peace can be contributed to by respect for our ability in defense. It will become a reality only through self-restraint and active effort. The animosities of elections should have no place in our Government for government must concern itself alone with the common weal. I shall therefore request a special session of Congress for the consideration of these two questions. President-elect Barack Obama says U.S. must not neglect the embedded ideals and aspirations of America. Obama: We must maintain the integrity of the Constitution and the vigorous enforcement of the laws. Government must give leadership to the realization of these ideals, he says. No one can adequately reduce these things of the spirit to phrases or to a catalogue of definitions, he adds. The questions before our country are problems of progress to higher standards. They are not the problems of degeneration. Ill-considered remedies for our faults bring only penalties after them. I have an abiding faith in their capacity, integrity, and high purpose. I have no fears for the future of our country. It is bright with hope. with comfort and opportunity. In no nation are the institutions of progress more advanced
"We have seen a world passion spend its fury, but we contemplate our Republic unshaken, and hold our civilization secure," he says. "Surely there must have been God's intent in the making of this new-world We have seen civil, human, and religious liberty verified and glorified. In the beginning the Old World scoffed at our experiment; today our foundations of political and social belief stand unshaken. Let us express renewed and strengthened devotion We sense the call of the human heart for fellowship, fraternity, and cooperation. We crave friendship and harbor no hate. But America, our America, the America builded on the foundation laid by the inspired fathers, can be a party We are ready to associate ourselves with the nations of the world, great and small, for conference, for counsel. We elect to participate in suggesting plans for mediation, conciliation, and arbitration. We would gladly join in that expressed conscience "A world supergovernment is contrary to everything we cherish and can have no sanction by our Republic," he said. "There was no American failure to resist the attempted reversion of civilization; there will be no failure today or tomorrow" "The American people. popular government rests wholly upon the correct interpretation of the deliberate, intelligent, dependable popular will of America," he said. Mankind needs a world-wide benediction of understanding. It will inaugurate an era of good feeling to make the birth of a new order. In such understanding men will strive confidently for the promotion of their better relationships. "The world's embittered travail did not leave us devastated lands nor desolated cities," he said. "It did involve us in the delirium of expenditure, in expanded currency and credits, in unbalanced industry "We shall give no people just cause to make war upon us," he said. "Our supreme task is the resumption of our onward, normal way" "I can vision the ideal republic, where every man and woman is called under the flag for assignment to duty for whatever service, military or civic, the individual is best fitted," he says. "Not one penny of war profit shall War never left such an aftermath. Nations are still groping for return to stable ways. Discouraging indebtedness confronts us like all the war-torn nations. No civilization can survive repudiation. We can reduce the abnormal expenditures, We need a rigid and yet sane economy, combined with fiscal justice. The business world reflects the disturbance of war's reaction. Herein flows the lifeblood of material existence. War invariably readjusts compensations, and necessaries of life will show their inseparable relationship. All the penalties will not be light, nor evenly distributed. There is no instant step from disorder to order. The call is for productive America to go on. I speak for administrative efficiency, for lightened tax burdens, for sound commercial practices, for adequate credit facilities. With all of this must attend a mindfulness of the human side of all activities My most reverent prayer for America is for industrial peace, with its rewards, widely and generally distributed, amid the inspirations of equal opportunity. No one justly may deny the equality of opportunity which made us what we are. We When revolution threatens we unfurl the flag of law and order and renew our consecration. Ours is a constitutional freedom where the popular will is the law supreme and minorities are sacredly protected. Preserved American standards require our higher production costs to be reflected in our tariffs on imports. Today, as never before, when peoples are seeking trade restoration and expansion, we must adjust our tariffs to the new order. Common welfare is the goal of our national endeavor. Wealth is not inimical to welfare; it ought to be its friendliest agency. There never can be equality of rewards or possessions so long as the human plan contains varied talents and We want the cradle of American childhood rocked under conditions so wholesome and so hopeful that no blight may touch it in its development. We want to provide that no selfish interest, no material necessity, no lack of opportunity shall prevent the gaining "I pledge an administration wherein all the agencies of Government are called to serve," he said. "I accept my part with single-mindedness of purpose and humility of spirit," he added. "I have taken the solemn oath of office on that passage of Holy Writ," he said. "This I plight to God and country."
"I cannot disguise the diffidence with which I am about to enter on the discharge of my official duties," he said. "I am deeply impressed with gratitude for the confidence reposed in me," he added. "I stand in the presence of this assembled multitude of my countrymen to take upon myself the solemn obligation "to the best of my ability to preserve, protect, and defend the Constitution of the United States" "I fervently invoke The Constitution itself, plainly written as it is, will be the chart by which I shall be directed. It will be my first care to administer the Government in the true spirit of that instrument. The Government of the United States is one "To the States, respectively, or to the people" have been reserved "the powers not delegated to the United States by the Constitution nor prohibited by it to the States" Each State is a complete sovereignty within the sphere of its reserved "To the Government of the United States has been intrusted the exclusive management of our foreign affairs" "It does not force reform on the States. It leaves individuals, over whom it casts its protecting influence, entirely free to improve their Self-government among men ever devised by human minds has been tested by its successful operation for more than half a century. It will be my desire to guard against that most fruitful source of danger to the harmonious action of our system. The Executive has been wisely invested with a qualified veto upon the acts of the Legislature. It is a negative power, and is conservative in its character. It arrests for the time hasty, inconsiderate, or unconstitutional legislation. Since the Union was formed the number of the States has increased from thirteen to twenty-eight. Two of these have taken their position as members of the Confederacy within the last week. All citizens, whether native or adopted, are placed upon terms of precise equality. All are entitled to equal rights and equal protection. No union exists between church and state. Perfect freedom of opinion is guaranteed to all sects and creeds. "He would stop the progress of free government and involve his country either in anarchy or despotism," he says. "Has the sword of despots proved to be a safer or surer instrument of reform in government than enlightened reason To preserve it the compromises which alone enabled our fathers to form a common constitution for the government and protection of so many States and distinct communities must be sacredly and religiously observed. Any attempt to disturb or destroy these compromises, being terms of "I. happy to believe that at every period of our existence as a nation there has existed, and continues to exist, among the great mass of our people a devotion to the Union of the States" "To increase the attachment of "I shall steadily oppose the creation of those institutions and systems which in their nature tend to pervert it from its legitimate purposes" "We need no national banks or other extraneous institutions planted around the Government to control or strengthen it in A national debt has become almost an institution of European monarchies. It is viewed in some of them as an essential prop to existing governments. Under a wise policy the debts contracted in our Revolution and during the War of 1812 have been The Government of the Union is neither in a legal nor a moral sense bound for the debts of the States, and it would be a violation of our compact of union to assume them. The sound moral and honorable feeling of the people of "Justice and sound policy forbid the Federal Government to foster one branch of industry to the detriment of another," he said. "In my judgment it is the duty of the Government to extend, as far as it may be practicable to do The power "to lay and collect taxes, duties, imposts, and excises" was an indispensable one to be conferred on the Federal Government. In executing this power by levying a tariff of duties for the support of Government In levying duties for revenue it is doubtless proper to make such discriminations within the 'revenue principle' as will afford incidental protection to our home interests. Within the revenue limit there is a discretion to discriminate; beyond that limit the All are equally entitled to the fostering care and protection of the Government. Care should be taken that it be done in a manner not to benefit the wealthy few at the expense of the toiling millions. The Republic of Texas has made known her desire to come into our Union. Texas was once a part of our country--was unwisely ceded away to a foreign power. Texas is now independent, and possesses an undoubted right I regard the question of annexation as belonging exclusively to the United States and Texas. Foreign powers do not seem to appreciate the true character of our Government. Our Union is a confederation of independent States, whose policy is peace with each other Foreign powers should look on the annexation of Texas to the United States not as the conquest of a nation seeking to extend her dominions. As our population has expanded, the Union has been cemented and strengthened. As our boundaries have been enlarged and our agricultural population has been spread over a large surface, our federative system has acquired additional strength and security. The U.S. confidently believed that our system may be safely extended to the utmost bounds of our territorial limits. None can fail to see the danger to our safety and future peace if Texas remains an independent state or becomes an ally or The U.S. would have been prevented from forming our present Union if Texas had not confederated together for certain specified objects. None of the present States will be responsible for them any more than they are for the local institutions of U.S. constitutional means the right of the United States to that portion of our territory which lies beyond the Rocky Mountains. Our title to the country of the Oregon is "clear and unquestionable" In the management of our foreign relations it will be my aim to observe a careful respect for the rights of other nations. Equal and exact justice should characterize all our intercourse with foreign countries. All alliances having a tendency to jeopard the welfare and A strict performance of duty will be exacted from all public officers, he said. Any culpable failure or delay on their part to account for the moneys intrusted to them at the times and in the manner required by law "I enter upon the discharge of the high duties which have been assigned me by the people," he said. "I humbly supplicating that Divine Being who has watched over and protected our beloved country"
President Obama: We meet again, as upon a like moment four years ago, and again you have witnessed my solemn oath of service to you. I, too, am a witness, today testifying in your name to the principles and purposes In our nation work and wealth abound. Commerce crowds our rivers and rails, our skies, harbors and highways. Our soil is fertile, our agriculture productive. Now this is our home--yet this is not the whole of our world No nation, however old or great, escapes this tempest of change and turmoil. In the heart of Europe, Germany still stands tragically divided. So is the whole continent divided. And so, too, all the world. Budapest is no longer merely the name of a city; henceforth it is a new and shining symbol of man's yearning to be free. We know clearly what we seek, and why. We seek peace, knowing that " peace we seek cannot be born of fear alone: it must be rooted in the lives of nations" "Without justice the world can know only a tense and unstable truce" "To counter the threat of those who seek to rule by We recognize and accept our own deep involvement in the destiny of men everywhere. We are accordingly pledged to honor, and to strive to fortify, the authority of the United Nations. Only in respecting the hopes and cultures of others will we No nation can longer be a fortress, lone and strong and safe. America is no stranger to much of its spirit. Everywhere we see the seeds of the same growth that America itself has known. We cherish our friendship with all nations that are or would be free. We respect, no less, their independence. And when, in time of want or peril, they ask our help, they may honorably receive it. We no We do not dread, rather do we welcome, their progress in education and industry. We wish them success in their demands for more intellectual freedom, greater security before their own laws. For as such things come to pass, the more certain "A life that honors the dignity of each, the brotherhood of all. of peace, when men and nations shall share a life" "Thank you very much.
"The will of the American people, expressed through their unsolicited suffrages, calls me before you to pass through the solemnities preparatory to taking upon myself the duties of President of the United States" The U.S. foreign policy adopted by our Government soon after the formation of our present Constitution has been crowned with almost complete success. To do justice to all and to submit to wrong from none has been during my Administration its governing maxim The destruction of our State governments or the annihilation of their control over the local concerns of the people would lead directly to revolution and anarchy, and finally to despotism and military domination. "Without union our country is not the same," he said. "I am ready to exercise my constitutional powers in arresting measures"  independence and liberty would never have been achieved; without union they never can be maintained. Divided into twenty-four, or even a smaller number, of separate communities, we shall see our internal trade burdened with numberless restraints and "Great is the stake placed in our hands," he says. "Let us exercise forbearance and firmness" "I shall continue to exert all my faculties" In entering society, "individuals must give up a share of liberty to preserve the rest," he says. "It will be my desire so to discharge my duties as to foster with our brethren in all parts of the country a spirit "We will continue forever to be a united and happy people," he said. "We will face all dangers of all kinds and continue forever as a united
President Obama: "For every generation there is a destiny. For this generation the choice must be our own" "Our destiny in the midst of change will rest on the unchanged character of our people and on their faith" The American people made a covenant with this land. It was meant one day to inspire the hopes of all mankind. If we keep its terms we shall flourish. President Obama: "Change has given us new weapons. Before this generation of Americans is finished, this enemy will not only retreat, it will be conquered" The American covenant called on us to help show the way for the liberation of man. Change has brought new meaning to that old mission. Terrific dangers and troubles that we once called "foreign" now constantly live among us. Our Nation's course is abundantly clear. We aspire to nothing that belongs to others. We seek no dominion over our fellow man, but man's dominion over tyranny and misery. The success of liberty demanded the strength of union. Under this covenant of justice, liberty, and union we have become a nation--prosperous, great, and mighty. But we have no promise from God that our greatness will endure. We have been allowed by Him to seek "I do not believe that the Great Society is the ordered, changeless, and sterile battalion of the ants," he says. "It is the excitement of becoming-always becoming, trying, probing, falling, resting, and trying President Obama: "In my lifetime, in depression and in war they have awaited our defeat. Each time, from the secret places of the American heart, came forth the faith that they could not see or that they couldn't even "Give me now wisdom and knowledge, that I may go out and come in before this people," an ancient leader said. "Who can judge this thy people, that is so great?"
The practice of all my predecessors imposes on me an obligation I cheerfully fulfill--to accompany the first and solemn act of my public trust with an avowal of the principles that will guide me in performing it. In imitating their Unlike all who have preceded me, the Revolution that gave us existence as one people was achieved at the period of my birth. I feel that I belong to a later age and that I may not expect my countrymen to weigh my actions In all the attributes of a great, happy, and flourishing people we stand without a parallel in the world. Abroad we enjoy the respect and, with scarcely an exception, the friendship of every nation. At home, while our Government The framers of our Constitution legislated for our country as they found it. Distinct sovereignties were in actual existence, whose cordial union was essential to the country. Between many of them there was, at least to some extent, a real diversity of interests, liable to be exaggerated through sinister designs. Most carefully were all these circumstances weighed, and the foundations of the new Government laid upon principles of reciprocal Half a century, teeming with extraordinary events, has passed along, but on our institutions it has left no injurious mark. From a small community we have risen to a people powerful in numbers and in strength. "We have learned by experience a fruitful lesson," he said. "An implicit and undeviating adherence to the principles on which we set out can carry us prosperously onward" 50 years ago its rapid failure was boldly predicted. retrospect presents a ground for still deeper delight. An imperfect experience during the struggles of the Revolution was an imperfect experience. The cost of two wars has been paid, not only without a murmur, but with unequaled alacrity. No one is now left to doubt that every burden will be cheerfully borne. The capacity of the people for self-government, and their willingness, from a high sense of duty, to submit to all needful restraints and exactions of municipal law, have also been favorably exemplified in the American States. Every assumption of illegal power not only wounds the majesty of the law, but furnishes a pretext for abridging the liberties of the people. In a supposed unfitness of our institutions for those hostile emergencies which no country can always avoid The last war, far from impairing, gave new confidence to our Government, and amid recent apprehensions of a similar conflict we saw that the energies of our country would not be wanting in ample season to vindicate its rights. We The power and influence of the Republic have arisen to a height obvious to all mankind. respect for its authority was not more apparent at its ancient than it is at its present limits. New and inexhaustible sources of general prosperity have been In justly balancing the powers of the Federal and State authorities difficulties nearly insurmountable arose at the outset and subsequent collisions were deemed inevitable. Amid these it was scarcely believed possible that a scheme of government so complex in construction could remain unin The ultimate operation of the entire system has been to strengthen all the existing institutions and to elevate our whole country in prosperity and renown. The last, perhaps the greatest, of the prominent sources of discord and disaster supposed to lurk in our "I cannot refrain from anxiously invoking my fellow-citizens never to be deaf to its dictates," he said. "I believed it a solemn duty fully to make known my sentiments in regard to it, and now, when every motive "I submitted also to my fellow-citizens, with fullness and frankness, the reasons which led me to this determination," he said. "The result authorizes me to believe that they have been approved" "The apprehensions of the timid and the hopes of the wicked for the destruction of our Government are again destined to be disappointed," he said. "Such attempts at dangerous agitation may periodically return, but with each the object will be better "What can be more gratifying than such a retrospect as this? We look back on obstacles avoided and dangers overcome, on expectations more than realized and prosperity perfectly secured," he said. "I desire to declare that the principle that will govern me in the high duty to which my country calls me is a strict adherence to the letter and spirit of the Constitution," he said. "I shall zealously devote myself to such as relate to our intercourse with foreign nations as the U.S. has intrusted to the Federal Government," he said. "Those opinions I shall endeavor to carry out with the We desire commercial relations on equal terms, being ever willing to give a fair equivalent for advantages received. decline alliances as adverse to our peace. We have no disposition and we disclaim all right to meddle in disputes. I bring with me a settled purpose to maintain the institutions of my country, which I trust will atone for the errors I commit. In receiving from the people the sacred trust twice confided to my illustrious predecessor, I know that I "I throw myself without fear on its justice and its kindness. Beyond that I only look to the gracious protection of the Divine Being whose strengthening support I humbly solicit," he said.
"To a few of us here today this is a solemn and most momentous occasion, and yet in the history of our nation it is a commonplace occurrence," he said. "In the eyes of many in the world, this every The U.S. is facing an economic affliction of great proportions. Idle industries have cast workers into unemployment, human misery, and personal indignity. Those who do work are denied a fair return for their labor by a tax system The economic ills we suffer have come upon us over several decades. They will not go away in days, weeks, or months, but they will go away. We as Americans have the capacity now, as we've had in the The solutions we seek must be equitable, with no one group singled out to pay a higher price. We hear much of special interest groups. Well, our concern must be for a special interest group that has been too long neglected. "We are a nation that has a government--not the other way around," Obama says. "It is time to check and reverse the growth of government," he says. "It's not my intention to do away with government. It is rather to make it work," he says. "Government can and must provide opportunity, not smother it" "It is time for us to realize that we're too great a nation to limit ourselves to small dreams," Obama says. "We have every right to dream heroic dreams," he adds. "Let us renew our faith and our hope There are entrepreneurs with faith in themselves and faith in an idea who create new jobs, new wealth and opportunity. They're individuals and families whose taxes support the government and whose voluntary gifts support church, charity, culture, art, and education "Can we solve the problems confronting us? Well, the answer is an unequivocal and emphatic "yes," " he says. "It is time to reawaken this industrial giant, to get government back within its means, "On you depend the fortunes of America. Act worthy of yourselves," Obama says. "We will again be the exemplar of freedom and a beacon of hope" "We will negotiate for it, sacrifice for it; we will not surrender for it," Obama says. "When action is required to preserve our national security, we will act," he says. This is the first time in our history that this ceremony has been held, as you've been told, on this West Front of the Capitol. Standing here, one faces a magnificent vista, opening up on this city's special beauty On the far shore of the Potomac River is the sloping hills of Arlington National Cemetery. Under one such marker lies a young man, Martin Treptow, who left his job in a small town barbershop in 1917 Martin Treptow's diary was found after his death. On the flyleaf under the heading, "My Pledge," he had written: "America must win this war"
"I avail myself of the occasion now presented to express the profound impression made on me by the call of my country to the station to the duties of which I am about to pledge myself by the most solemn of sanctions," he writes. Under the benign influence of our republican institutions, and the maintenance of peace with all nations, the fruits of a just policy were enjoyed in an unrivaled growth of our faculties and resources. Proofs of this were seen in the improvements "It has been the true glory of the United States to cultivate peace by observing justice," he said. "This unexceptionable course could not avail against the injustice and violence of the belligerent powers" "I repair to the post assigned me with no other discouragement than what springs from my own inadequacy to its high duties," he said. "I find some support in a consciousness of the purposes and a confidence in the principles which The Constitution is the cement of the Union, as well in its limitations as in its authorities, he writes. It is equally incorporated with and essential to the success of the general system, he says. "My good fortune, moreover, to have the path in which I am to tread lighted by examples of illustrious services successfully rendered in the most trying difficulties by those who have marched before me" "I may, however, be pardoned for not suppressing the sympathy with which my heart is full in the rich reward he enjoys in the benedictions of a beloved country," he said. "The source to which I look or CNN.com will feature iRep
"I shall endeavor to express the high sense I entertain of this distinguished honor, and of the confidence which has been reposed in me by the people"
"I avail myself of this customary and solemn occasion to express the gratitude which their confidence inspires and to acknowledge the accountability which my situation enjoins" I will keep steadily in view the limitations as well as the extent of the Executive power, trusting thereby to discharge the functions of my office without transcending its authority. With foreign nations it will be my study to preserve peace and to cultivate A strict and faithful economy will facilitate the extinguishment of the national debt. It will counteract that tendency to public and private profligacy which a profuse expenditure of money by the Government is but too apt to engender. "I shall not seek to enlarge our present establishment, nor disregard that salutary lesson of political experience which teaches that the military should be held subordinate to the civil power" "The gradual increase of our Navy, whose flag has displayed The bulwark of our defense is the national militia, which in the present state of our intelligence and population must render us invincible. As long as our Government is administered for the good of the people, and is regulated by their will, "The recent demonstration of public sentiment inscribes on the list of Executive duties, in characters too legible to be overlooked, the task of 'reform' I shall endeavor to select men whose diligence and talents will insure in their A diffidence, perhaps too just, in my own qualifications will teach me to look with reverence to the examples of public virtue left by my illustrious predecessors. The same diffidence induces me to hope for instruction and aid from the coordinate branches
"I avail myself of the presence of that portion of my fellow-citizens which is here assembled to express my grateful thanks for the favor with which they have been pleased to look toward me" "I look with encouragement for that guidance and support which may enable us to steer with safety the vessel in which we are all embarked," he said. Let us restore to social intercourse that harmony and affection without which liberty and even life itself are but dreary things. Let us reflect that, having banished from our land that religious intolerance under which mankind so long bled and suffered, "We have called by different names brethren of the same principle. We are all Republicans, we are all Federalists. If there be any among us who would wish to dissolve this Union, let them stand undisturbed" "I believe this, on the contrary, the strongest Government on earth. I believe it the only one where every man, at the call of the law, would fly to the standard" "Can he, then, be trusted with A wise and frugal Government, which shall restrain men from injuring one another, shall leave them otherwise free to regulate their own pursuits of industry and improvement. This is the sum of good government, and this is necessary to close the "I will compress them within the narrowest compass they will bear, stating the general principle, but not all its limitations," he said. "I will give equal and exact justice to all men, of whatever state or persuasion" A well disciplined militia, our best reliance in peace and for the first moments of war, till regulars may relieve them. The supremacy of the civil over the military authority; economy in the public expense, that labor may be lightly burt The wisdom of our sages and blood of our heroes have been devoted to their attainment. They should be the creed of our political faith, the text of civic instruction, the touchstone by which to try the services of those we trust I ask your indulgence for my own errors, which will never be intentional, and your support against the errors of others. The approbation implied by your suffrage is a great consolation to me for the past. My future solicit  Infinite Power which rules the destinies of the universe lead our councils to what is best, and give them a favorable issue for your peace and prosperity.
